A list of all Amphibious units in Supreme Commander is available
[here](:Category:Amphibious_Units "wikilink").

Amphibious describes vehicles which are capable of moving across both
land and water. Some Amphibious units travel on the surface like a
conventional sea vessel, some Hover just above the surface, and others
cross the sea floor.
![](Amphibious_Cybran_ACU.png "fig:Amphibious_Cybran_ACU.png")

Amphibious units which travel on the sea bed become *Submerged*. This
renders them invisible to surface Radar but detectable to Sonar and
vulnerable to attack by Torpedoes. Amphibious units which travel on the
surface share the properties of conventional surface vessels, being
detectable by Radar as well as Sonar, and vulnerable to torpedoes.

*Hovering* amphibious units, such as the Riptide, move across water as
they move across land, without actually touching the water, and as such
are immune to attack by Torpedoes, but are still detectable by sonar.

In the case of structures, the Amphibious ability only enables them to
be built on both land and water, rather than enabling them to move
between the two. Also, probably to avoid problems, it is impossible to
build structures on a water-land interface.

Amphibiousness is a highly useful attribute because it reduces the
limiting effect of water on unit movement. For units that travel above
the surface, it is almost completely eliminated.

Units that are Amphibious and travel on or above the water include the
Salem Class, the Riptide, the Aurora, the Ascendant, the Asylum, the
Blaze, the Zthuee, the Yenzyne, the Iashavoh, the Athanah and all
Engineers. Units that are Amphibious and travel underwater include all
ACUs and SCUs, the Wagner, The Brick, the Percival, the Othuum, the
Galactic Colossus, the Fatboy, the Monkeylord, the Megalith and the
Ythotha.