## What is the Phantom Mod?

The Phantom mod for Supreme Commander: Forged Alliance is a "Phantom"
game mod, with a few extras. Phantom was based on the Phantom mod by
NowakPL, so most of what Nowak has done you will see in Phantom.

The Phantom mod can be downloaded from the Vault.

At 7 minutes, everyone gets to vote on how many Phantoms will be in the
game. At 8 minutes, a random selection of players will be designated
"Phantoms". The objective is to eliminate all phantom players, or, if
you are a phantom, eliminate ALL players. Phantoms get slightly
increased resources. If they break alliance with all innocent players
this bonus increases further.

## Recent Changes

## Version 1

Tweaked the UI a little Shared Resources and Allied Victory buttons
removed Locked teams is now forced off, irrespective of game settings

## Beta 3

Fixed and reenabled the Resource Dump buttons, Phantoms can now dump 90%
of their mass or energy reserves Added a vote for the number of Phantoms
in the game at the 7 minute mark Phantom income is now based on how many
Phantoms are in the game Reduced the Phantoms income: Single Phantom
ally = 0.20, mix = 0.25, enemy = 0.30, phantom_war = 1.0, vampire = 0.0
Two Phantoms ally = 0.10, mix = 0.15, enemy = 0.20, phantom_war = 1.2,
vampire = 0.5 Three Phantoms ally = 0.08, mix = 0.10, enemy = 0.15,
phantom_war = 1.1, vampire = 0.4

## Beta 2

Disabled resource sharing to prevent a recursive increase of all allies
resources

## Beta 1

Phantoms are no longer allies, and only 1 phantom can win the game When
only phantoms remain, all alliances are automatically broken, vampire
conditions are set Added phantom condition 'vampire', for when only
phantoms are alive All phantoms receive a 50% refund on units they kill
Phantoms no longer receive any other form of bonuses Increased phantom
coefficients: Allied: 0.25 Mixed: 0.3 Enemy: 0.4 Phantom War coefficient
remains at 1.3 Vampire coefficient is 0.5

## Alpha 2

Removed eco dump buttons which were preventing game desyncs As per
TyrialFrost's advise, the best option for a phantom to be in is now to
be at war with all innocents, and allied with phantoms. The 'Phantom
War' bonus is only applied if the phantom is at war with another
phantom, and contains a mixed set of alliances with innocents. This
should rule out most cases of using the war bonus against innocents.
Phantom War coefficient reduced to a 30% increase

## Gameplay

When a Phantom-N game is started all players are immediately allied with
each other. At 8 minutes into the game one third of players are
designated as "phantoms", rounded up. Remaining players as considered
"innocents". At the 8 minute mark you are told what you are, but you,
nor any other players, have any idea what everyone else was designated.

After 8 minutes, the game is Phantoms vs Innocents, remembering that you
don't know who is a fellow innocent or phantom, you are free to make or
break alliances as you choose. When only Innocents remain, they achieve
an allied victory (even if they are at war). When only Phantoms remain
however, they are immediately pitched against each other as there can be
only one victorious Phantom. When only Phantoms remain, Vampire
conditions are set to fuel their economies.

Vampire conditions mean that Phantoms don't get their regular bonuses
any more, as there are no more Innocents to feed upon. So instead they
receive 50% of the cost price for every unit they kill.

In a 2 or 3 player game, 1 player will be the phantom. In a 4, 5 or 6
player game, 2 players will be phantoms. In a 7 or 8 player game, there
will be 3 phantoms.

## The Phantoms Perks

The Phantoms are outnumbered, so they need a few perks to help them
along. After 8 minutes, a phantom player receives additional resources.
They can see how much of their income is their phantom bonus by the
numbers indicated at the end of the 'Phantom UI' (see below).

## Allied Conditions

The Phantoms economy is a complex system that depends on whether ALL
Phantoms are at war with all Innocents. Of course, there is no way of
knowing if this is the case or not. If all Phantoms are allied with all
Innocents, they receive a bonus of 20% of the combined income of all
Innocents. The Innocents income is not effected. So, in a 6 player game,
both Phantoms will receive on top of their own income, 20% of what the
remaining 4 players are making.

## Mixed Conditions

If ANY Phantom has broken alliance with any Innocent, ALL Phantom
players now receive a "mixed" bonus. The mixed bonus is 25% of all
Innocents incomes. If one Phantom is at war with all Innocents but a
second Phantom has an alliance with just one Innocent, both Phantoms
stay on the mixed bonus.

## Enemy Conditions

If all Phantoms are completely at war with every Innocent, then enemy
bonuses are in effect. All Phantoms now receive a bonus of 35%. Phantoms
can be allied with other Phantoms, this will still count as enemy bonus
conditions.

## Phantom War

When a Phantom goes to war with another Phantom, a special coefficient
is applied to the two warring Phantoms. A 30% increase to their current
bonus is applied, so if two Phantoms are allied with all Innocents, but
declare war with each other, they are in mixed bonus conditions (25%) +
phantom war conditions (+30%), so they now receive 32.5% of all Innocent
incomes.

The Phantom War bonus serves two purposes, firstly to masquerade the
Phantoms bonus economy and make it harder for the Phantom to pick who
the other Phantom is by making or breaking alliances (the above example
will look like moving to mixed conditions) and secondly to fuel
phantom-phantom wars and well, provide Innocents with some cheerful
entertainment.

## The Phantom UI

The Phantom UI is new to SupCom Phantom Mods. The UI sits under the eco
and multifunction UI's on the left of the HUD. Before the 8 minute mark
this UI provides a countdown to phantom designation. After 8 minutes it
will change depending on whether you are a Phantom or Innocent. Either
way, in large text it will say at the top "Phantom" or "Innocent" so you
don't forget who's side you're on.

## For Innocents

To the right of your new "Innocent" title you'll see a kill counter.
This number is Phantom deaths followed by the number of Phantom players
in the game. You want the left number to reach the right number.

The lower part of the UI shows remaining Phantoms and Innocents left in
the game. This is just here for reference. You don't want that Innocents
counter to get too low.

## For Phantoms

This is where the Phantom UI gets serious. Phantoms get everything the
Innocents get on their UI plus some important extras.

To the right of your kill counter is your bonus stats. This shows how
much of your economy is being fuelled by your dear friends, the
Innocents. Mass and energy readings respectively. You are not told what
bonus group you are in.

On the lower section, you'll have a mass and energy button. They look
very tempting to press, but I'd try to keep your hands off them. These
are the dump resource buttons. If you're having too much trouble looking
like a Phantom, you can masquerade yourself better by intentionally
dumping your resource reserves. You could do this to get shields to
fail, have things build slower or allow for allies to provide you with
additional resources (oh you're just evil!). When you press the dump
mass or dump energy button, 90% of that reserve will immediately be
removed from your storage.

Remember, doing this won't adversely effect anything and it won't make
shields fail just by pressing it. You have to drain the last 10% of your
reserves yourself, if your production is positive, then that will never
happen.

## Other Changes

To prevent giving away which players are phantoms, two things have
changed slightly from a regular game:

Factory lights are now always set to green, for all players All storage
devices are forced to look like they are full

## Winning The Game

Once all Phantoms have been eliminated, all remaining Innocent players
are automatically allied and allied victory is enabled. The game will
end as you would expect a normal team game to end. The same happens in
the reverse, if all Innocent players are eliminated then all Phantom
players are automatically allied, even if they were about to kill each
other.

The game officially ends there. Done, Finished. However, if you got all
Phantoms a little easier than you expected, well, then you can turn the
game into a free-for-all by quickly breaking alliance with any player.
Be wary though, the game is about to become all-on-you.

## Special Thanks

A special thank-you to people who helped get this mod working:

TyrialFrost - Testing WorthyRival - Testing