## FAF-related changes and fixes

-   Title screen and replay files are displaying the correct patch
    version.
-   Fixed scores reported incorrectly when Autoteam = none and random =
    on.
-   Removing the reset of unit cap on each hosted game to 500.
-   changed the ranked unit cap to 1000.

## New Features

-   Added Sorian AI. Sorian AI is now available to use in FAF. (YOU MUST
    UNINSTALL SORIAN AI MOD AND LEM IF YOU HAVE THEM.)
-   added new and improved random faction generating function that
    doesn't give seraphim 75% of the time
-   Added engineer wrecks on the water
-   Added Autoget as mandatory and enabled for all players. (Units are
    automatically given, if share is enabled, 20 seconds after death.)
-   Added tech-less icons for energy storages so they are easier to find
-   All structures now leave wrecks when destroyed in the water.
-   New lobby textures from Moritz

## Bug Fixes

-   fixed aeon hover sheild floating wreckage bug (fix in default
    units).
-   fixed ACU upgrades exploit
-   Fixed UEF ACU nano regen upgrade... it no longer gets overwritten by
    veterancy.
-   Adjusted the seraphim T2 destroyer anti-torp further. It's
    performance is now improved.
-   TML weapon on strategic missile subs now have the correct range ring
-   Fixed Seraphim destroyer, UEF Atlantis and Aeon Exp Battleship
    wreckages. They now sink and wreck on the sea floor properly.
-   Fixed a transport bug/exploit.
-   fix for the UEF ACU build drones. Now the destruction of one drone
    does not adversely affect the other. Further, drones are
    automatically re-built upon death at their original cost (160 mass,
    1600 energy). Drone re-building takes 10 seconds and does not
    interfere with other ACU processes, such as moving, shooting or
    constructing.