## What is Diamond Patch Mod

Diamond Patch Mod is designed for pro gaming purposes. It has tighter
gameplay than original Forged Alliance so map control is more important.
There are less shortcuts to victory so you have to really dominate your
opponent to get a win. Fixes also most of the bugs found in game. You
can now use every tactic, unit or acu upgrade found in game without
being labeled as "insert method here" noob. Of course haxing and
glitching is not allowed(offmapping etc.)

## Changelog

Here is the structural changelog from 3599 to Diamond Patch Mod (aka
Diamond V5 Final)

## General

Made to patch like to ensure similar gameplay experience in all
platforms

Fixed beamweapons not being able to hit strafing units

Is now compatible with current Forged Alliance Forever lobby
system(FAF). thx to FunkOff for help

Seraphim torpedoes are no longer vulnerable to surface splash weapons

## Command

Fixed sera commander OC misshit issue Fixed Sera scu being reclaimable
sera acu adv restofields buggy 10% health bonus removed fixed sera scu
nano repair upgrade wrong health bonus Fixed sera acu's restoration
field upgrade and advanced restoration field upgrade to not repair the
ACU All Units shooting at the Seraphim ACU now aim at the correct bones
instead of the feet. fixed sera acu t3 upgrade wrong health

Fixed UEF ACU friendly damage bug. Credits to FuryoftheStars fixed an
issue causing injured acu to drop energy, shields and intel when staying
near engineer stations or assist ordered engineers

prevent ACU Upgrade to be acquired at a lower cost through cancelling
--> prevents the using of the upgrade bug. 3603 fix. thx for help to
Koecher

cybran ACU's stealth costs increased from 350M 5250E 35 seconds
buildtime to 550M 8000E 50 seconds buildtime

Aeon and uef ACU's personal shields rebalanced. They now gives half
amount of hp from their stage 2 heavy shield values. aeon from 1500M
93750E 29000hp buildtime 1250 to 2200M 120000E 22000hp buildtime 2000
uef from 1500M 112500E 24000hp buildtime 1500 to 1800M 108000E 18000hp
buildtime 1800

all commanders T3 upgrade wrong regen rates fixed T3 upgrade costs
increased from 2400M 50000E to 3000M 65000E. Buildtime stays original

Tactical missile upgrade for UEF and Sera ACU mass cost raised from 1000
to 3600 BuildcostEnergy raised from 50000 to 150000 buildtime tripled

UEF ACU's Billy reload timeout increased to avoid rapid firing through
assisting. can now shoot once every 30 seconds.

T3 Commanders and T3 engineers can no longer build T4 stuff. Use Support
Commanders to build T4.

## Engineers

fixed sera t1 engineer assist delay issue T2 engineer buildrate
increased from 10 to 15 (uef t2 sparky too) T3 engineer buildrate
increased from 15 to 30(buildrates on different techs are now closer
together masswise)

## Buildings

fixed mex upgrade bug t1 energy storage now stores 6000E instead of
2000E fixed an issue on t1 point defences causing acus to shoot through
them and missing

T2 tactical missile launcher moved to T3 (reason: weapon with 5 km range
too "Hi-tech" for T2. Use T2 Artillery instead)

Cybran and Seraphim T2 Point Defenses dps increased. Cybran +20% damage
(damage to 11 from 9) Seraphim +10% damage

fixed uef t3 ravager damages friendly units bug

all factions static Tactical Missile Launchers costs increased 50%
Cybran Missile health normalized so that the parent missile has 1 health
and the child missiles have 1 health each as well. fixed wrong maximum
speed in child missiles.

Aeon T2 Tactical Missile Defense: lowered fire cycle to 1 projectile
every 3.33 seconds (from 3.125 seconds)

T2 static antiair flak weapon gets +25% muzzle velocity Fixed T2 static
antiair cant shoot straight up issue

T2 Artillery Installation Reduced mass cost by \~10% Reduced build time
by \~20% Reduced energy cost by \~40%

Seraphim T2 Shield Generator hp lowered to 11500hp from 13000hp (still
the best static t2 shield)

Cybran t2 shield stages rebalanced. It is still most expensive but not
that bad. New prices and stats: stage 1: 200m 2000E 4000hp (+40mass)
stage 2: 300m 3000E(=500m 5000E) 7000hp (no change) stage 3: 600m
9000E(=1100m 14000E) 10000hp (-200mass -3000E) stage 4: 1000m
16000E(=2100m 30000E) 13000hp (-200mass -8000E) stage 5: 2100m
35000E(=4200m 65000E) 16000hp (-300mass -5000E +2000hp)

sera t2 sonar can now move(3 times slower than other factions t3 sonars)
Increased cost from 180M 5400E to 240M 7200E and +33% buildtime.
Increased MaintenanceConsumptionPerSecondEnergy from 100 to 180.

T2 static topredo launcher range increased from 60 to 85 and dps
decreased to 60dps.

t3 harms increased range from 80 to 100. It is now immune to all spash
damage. lowered dps to 150dps

cybran t3 sonar stealth range decreased from 90 to 35

T3 antiair SAMs costs decreased from 1400M 12000E to 1200M 10000E Sera
T3 antiair projectile now track targets like all other sams to fix the
misshit problem

T3 air factory costs raised to 4200M 84000E from 2520M 46200E T3 land
factory costs raised to 3780M 33600E from 3150M 28350E

T3 mass extractors mass income lowered from 18 (27 with mass storages)
to 14 (21 with mass storages). This is to make map control more
important over just ecoing in base

refixed the faulty 3603 bugfix in t1 t2 and t3 aeon cybran and sera
naval factories so they can now be hit with both torpedoes and
beamweapons(in 3603 u cant hit aeon and sera naval factories with
beamweapons anymore)

fixed bugs in all factions t1 t2 and t3 naval factories that made ships
behave like lunatics after build (all of them had issues, sera was the
worst, now every single naval factory has individually tailored
rolloffpoint values)

T3 Static artillery buildcosts increased 25%

Fixed Aeon T3 Rapid-Fire Artillery Installation: Salvation's crazy rate
of fire bonus from pgens Fixed Aeon T3 Quantum Optics Facility: Eye of
Rhianne wrong adjajency bonus

Land nuke launchers moved to T4. Use nuke subs or sera battleship if u
want build nukes at T3 stage Aeon Rapid-Fire Artillery Installation:
Salvation moved to T4

Quantum Gates: increased hp from 10000 to 30000 (to make sense to
T1\<T2\<T3\<T4 Land factories hp evolution) It is now 3 times harder to
assist a quantum gate than before(it still builds one subcom in 5
minutes. only assist is harder) Increased masscost from 3000M to 6000M.
Increased energycost from 30000E to 180000E. buildtime doubled

UEF Novax Center now correctly launches the satellite, when player is a
unit cap Added radar radius(45) to uef defence satellite to enhance its
role as intel gathering unit. vision radius remains same(10)

Cybran Nuke correctly detonate at the impact altitude instead of 20
units above. thx for help to Koecher

Eye of Rihanne lowered RemoteViewingRadius from 45 to 25(same as 3603)

## Aircrafts

T1 airscouts lowered build costs 25% and doubled hp from around \~30hp
to \~60hp

T1 Transports BuildCostMass increased from 120 to 200 BuildCostEnergy
increased from 4800 to 6000 buildtime increased from 40sec to 50 sec

Light assult bots cant fire from transports anymore (no ghetto gunships)

fixed sera t1 bombers bomb detonating in mid air bug on high altitude
changing maps

Cybran t1 jester dps lowered from 48dps to 39dps

Bomb drop prediction corrected on all T1 T2 bombers to moving targets.
3603 fix bomb drop fix to all T1 T2 bombers misshits due high elevation
changes. my fix fixed sera T2 bomber not dropping its bomb lowered
cybran t2 corsair antiground weapon range from 45 to 35 to fix the stop
abuse issue increased cybran t2 corsair antiair dps from 53dps to
75dps(still the worst t2 dogfighter but not that bad)

Aeon T2 mercy fuel increased from 70 to 110(same as 3603) damage
decreased from 2400 to 1700 maximum radius decreased from 25 to 22(the
point where mercy turns into untargetable lighting bolt) fixed fighters
cant hit them reliably while they are landed bug. credits to Koecher
fixed wrong AirThreatLevel

T2 gunships Increased health 25% lowered speed from 12 to 10 Increased
fuel time from 6mins 40secs to 9 minutes raised flying elevation from 10
to 16 so they cant fly under enemy t2 shields Increased area damage
radius from 0 to 1 buildcosts normalized to 3599 values

fixed bug in cybran t2 gunship preventing it from firing without an
attack command

fixes 5 different issues on t2 torpedo bombers(outrun, shallow water
etc. sera was most bugged)

fixed issue on several t2 and t3 gunships that could not shoot straight
down and miss consistently(missing code)

fixed many issues on aeon t3 torpedo bomber solace(cant drop on second
pass, torpedo outrun probs etc.)

T3 bombers now hit their target even on high altitude changing maps and
against moving targets but you can still evade bombs with your
commander. Because T3 bombers now actually hit their target with their
bombs, damage of bombs are reduced 20% Different factions T3 bombers
area damage radius values are set closer together from 4-7 to
4-5.5(order remains same) T3 bombers max speed lowered to 17 from 18

Restorers are rebalanced so you are allowed to use them in game Max air
speed lowered from 10 to 9 Health lowered from 7200 to 6600 Ground
damage increased from 160dps to 180dps Antiair damage lowered from
130dps to 90 dps

All t3 gunships now costs the same(Even restorer) BuildCostMass 1680
BuildCostEnergy 50400 buildtime 2min 20sec all t3 gunships gets area
damage radius 1 to their ground weapons and flying elevation is raised
from 10 to 16 t3 uef ja cybran gunships speed increased from 8 to 10 and
they dont chase fast moving planes across the whole map anymore t3 uef
gunship Broadsword increased antiair dps from 3.08 to 12.32

Increased mass costs on some T3 air units. Energy costs are 3599 values
if not told otherwise Aeon T3 torp bomber Solace increased mass costs
from 1650M to 1760M All ASF's increased mass costs from 400M to 500M All
T3 bombers increased mass costs from 2100M to 2240M. Energy costs from
70000E to 80000E

UEF T3 Heavy Air Transport: Continental lowered costs from 2000M 28125E
2min 5secs buildtime to 1400M 28000E 1min 40secs buildtime bettered
shield to block more flak projectiles from hurting the transport itself
and cargo units decreased Flayer SAM Anti Air dps to half to compensate
the price drop raised flying elevation from 10 to 16

Fixed no drop issue on sera T4 Bomber and added bomb loading indicator

Aeon T4 Czar pizza delivery damage lowered to 8000 from 15000(crash to
land) lowered costs from 45000M 731250E to 40000M 650000E

## Vehicles

uef t1 arty lobo decreased hp from 205hp to 200hp(same as 3603) t1
scouts are in 3603 values

fixed sera t1 mobile antiair 50 % shot at ground when moving bug

transferred 12 mass 60E and 60 buildtime from cybran t1 arty to cybran
t1 mobile AA this makes cybran t1 arty viable unit and fixes mobile aa
spam abuse issue cybran t1 mobile AA gets +25% dps to AA weapon to
compensate this arrangement cybran t1 arty gets +25% dps to compensate
this arrangement fixed cybran t1 mobile antiair cant hit high air units
issue

T2 mobile antiair flak weapon gets +25% muzzle velocity fixed Seraphim
T2 Mobile Anti-Air cant shoot straight up issue

Made T2 land tanks slightly tougher. T2 land tanks have 20-25% more
hitpoints. Cybran t2 tank got buffed more as it was too weak compared to
the others. speed is not lowered like in 3603 patch. This makes t2 land
more desirable and less likely just skipable.

Aeon T2 Assault Tank: Blaze range increased from 23 to 26. vision range
increased from 15 to 20 Cybran T2 Amphibious Tank: Wagner speed
increased from 3.7 to 4 UEF T2 Amphibious Tank: Riptide speed increased
from 3.7 to 4

Sera T2 hover tank BuildCostEnergy lowered from 1320 to 1200
BuildCostMass lowered form 220 to 200 BuildTime lowered from 22 sec to
20 sec speed increased from 3.7 to 4 area damage radius raised to 1.5
(Cannon weapon) (reason: to make this weak unit more usable atleast in
some situations)

cybran T2 firebeetles: Increased damage to 1800 from 1200. DamageRadius
increased from 5 to 6. healt lowered from 750hp to 400hp. does not
inflict damage to friendly units anymore. improved acceleration,
braking, cornering and detonation tolerancy(but not speed). use attack
ground mode for maximum effiency

fixed wrong TransportClass of Cybran t2 firebeetle, Cybran T2 Rocket
Bot: Hoplite and Aeon T3 Shield Disruptor: Absolver

Increased Cybran Deceiver (t2 mobile stealth generator) speed,
acceleration and brake to match the values of other factions t2 mobile
shields. same as in 3603 patch

UEF T2 Gatling Bot: Mongoose and Cybran T2 Rocket Bot: Hoplite Heath
normalized to 3599 levels(not lowered like in 3603) speed lowered from
3.6 to 3.2

UEF T2 Mobile Shield Generator: Parashield and Aeon T2 Mobile Shield
Generator: Asylum shield hp normalized to 3599 levels(not lowered like
in 3603) increased buildcosts and buildtime to lessen the spam

all factions t2 mobile missiles launchers damage increased 50%(same as
in 3603)

all factions t3 mobile artys can now shoot while moving. this is to fix
major issue causing factories to halt unit production

UEF T3 Mobile Missile Platform: Spearhead Increased range to 105 from
80. It now outranges t3 artillery(range 90) increased damageradius to
1.5 from 0.5 increased builtime to 50secs from 40 secs increased mass
cost to 600 from 400 increased energycost to 4500 from 3000 damage
normalized to 3599 values reason: fits perfectly to uef's outranging
philosophy. now spearhead has two advantages over t3 arty(better range
and accuracy). t3 artys advantages are area damage, lead targeting to
moving units and immunity to tac defs

Fixed Fatboy, Monkeylord, Megalith, Calactic Colossus, Percival and the
brick being able to fire from shallow water, being unattackable from
land while doing so bug. Thx for help to Koecher

fixed sera t3 tank and cybran scathis having difficulty to shoot while
on slopes Sera T3 Sniper bot now correctly shows both normal and sniper
mode range rings

uef t3 titan range range increased from 20 to 23

Aeon T3 Harbinger: Transferred 2600hp from shield to health (now health
4600hp shield 1300hp) decreased shields recharge time from 60 to
35(reason: weaker shield) shield can now protect the unit from t2 pd
splash damage

Land Experimentals cost increased to 3603 levels(=costs as much as in
3603) Yothas deathweapon lowered from 110000 to 60000 total damage.
fixed monkeylord not showing its laser range radius ring

## Ships

all factions t1 submarines health set to 600hp(this makes t1 subs viable
on all factions not just uef)

Decreased Frigate & t1 submarine cost by 10% Increase frigate anti-air
dps to 15, attack boat anti-air dps to 35, and Battleship Antiair dps to
60

fixed uef T2 Cruiser not being able to fire with all weapons at the same
time sera t2 cruiser flak weapon gets +25% muzzle velocity Increased
antiair dps +25% in all factions t2 cruisers(same as 3603) lowered
cybran T2 cuiser Proton cannon dps from 230 to 160(same as 3603)

uef t2 torpedo boat + 30% health. torpedo defence lowered from once
every 2.5secs to once every 3.8secs aeon t2 submarine + 30% health.
Increased watervision from 45 to 55. cybran t2 submarine + 30% health
sera destroyer increased torpedo weapon +25% dps and fixed the
antitorpedo not working bug

Increased Uef T2 destroyer Angler Torpedo range from 45 to 60 and dps
from 30 to 40

Increased Aeon T2destroyer firerate from once every 5 secs to once every
2.5secs. Dps remains same

Uef shieldboat and cybran stealth boat speed decreased from 7 to 6 so
they dont go ahead of frigates and submarines Increased shielboat costs
to 3603 values

SERA T3 Submarine Hunter lowered maxspeed from 6 to 5

All submersible naval units(T1-T4) now dives deeper so they cant be
damaged with ground fire of cruisers or battleships

UEF T3 BAttlecruiser: BuildCostMass decreased from 7500 to 7140 lowered
builtime from 8 min 20secs to 7 minutes Angler Torpedo dps inreased from
20dps to 50dps

Fixed Sera Battleship nuke no warning sound and nuke fly high bugs(3603
patch fix)

All nuke subs have now the same range and area damage radius on their
tactical missiles. 150 (2.93 km) area damage radius 4 fixed T3 nuke subs
tactical missile range circle not showing(now shows nuke min and max
radius too) T3 Nuke subs and sera battleships nuke inner ring damage set
to 60000 instead of 25000 T3 submarine nuke missile costs increased from
16800M 1764000E 7 minutes build time to 19200M 1920000E 8 minutes build
time Sera battleship nuke costs increased from 19200M 1920000E 8 minutes
build time to 21600M 2160000E 9 minutes build time T3 Nuke subs can dive
up to -6 deep instead of -2 T3 Nuke subs and sera T3 Battleship energy
cost raised to 200000. (reason: ability to build nuke)

Aeon T4 tempest lowered lowered mass cost from 28000M to 20000M and
energy cost from 350000E to 250000E

plus some minor bugs fixed

## When running Diamond Patch Mod with 3603 patch, FAF or Steam FA

T1 tanks speeds are in 3599 values

T1 transports cant transport commanders anymore in 3603 and steam FA

OC system normalized. You can use OverCharge without having to build an
energy storage just like in 3599.

energy storages costs, explosion damage, explosion radius and health
normalized.

engineers and factories gives you energy storage(3599 values)

acu death nuke damage values normalized

t1 bombers costs normalized

T3 Air units energy costs normalized

t3 naval factories and ships costs normalized (but ships buildtimes are
lowered from 3599 values)

## Special Thanks

Thanks to makers of CBFP, 3603 Patch, FAF, modders and gamers themselves
for great ideas and inspiration and for Chris Taylor and his crew for
making this awesome game.

Made in Finland.

## Where can I get it?

Diamond Patch Mod is available here:

<http://www.strategyinformer.com/pc/supremecommanderforgedalliance/mod/42265.html>