[Final Rush Pro
5](https://github.com/JeroenDeDauw/FinalRushPro5/blob/master/README.md)
is a map that supports multiple game modes, most notably survival.

## Download

See the [**download** and installation
section](https://github.com/JeroenDeDauw/FinalRushPro5/blob/master/README.md).

## Game modes

The game mode can be selected by the person hosting the game in the
lobby.

### Survival Classic

Waves of increasingly strong enemy units spawn at the centre of the map
and assault your base. Your goal is to hold out as long as possible.
Beware that you cannot put your ACU into the water or hide in the hills
behind your base; both will result in it being destroyed.

You can play solo or in a team of up to 8 people, 4 on each side of the
map. You'll need to put the game into sandbox mode so you can start it.
It is also possible to play with multiple teams, typically one on each
side, and see who lasts the longest.

### Survival Versus

In Survival Versus, two teams, each on their side of the map, get waves
of enemy units. The team that holds out the longest wins. If the
pressure is not high enough, you can attack the enemy team, to put them
out of their misery faster :)

Differences with classic survival:

-   You will be allied with the survival units attacking the opposing
    team
-   You can put you ACU in the water or venture into the hills
-   You will get vision from one of the civilian lighthouses at the
    corners of the map
-   You can destroy the transports that bring in the survival units

### Paragon Wars

In Paragon Wars, the two teams fight for control over the centre of the
map, where an enemy civilian base guards the Paragon Activator. Whoever
captures the Paragon Activator gets a paragon for one minute. Once the
minute expires, the centre of the map gets cleared and a new civilian
base with Paragon Activator spawns.

## The map itself

At the left and right corners of the map, civilian lighthouses get
spawned. These can be captured for extra map vision.

Many options are available in the lobby to alter the gameplay, most of
them specific to the survival modes.

## New in version 5

Many new features where added in version 5 of the map, compared to
version 4, see the [RELEASE
NOTES](https://github.com/JeroenDeDauw/FinalRushPro5/blob/master/README.md=new-in-version-5).