If your map is unplayable, it is likely that something has been messed
up in the scenario.lua file. I have made the following code to make it a
bit easier to understand what exactly is being done by the computer.
Please note that this scenario file may look different than what you see
in your editor. Several lines of code are in another place than in the
code generated by the map editor. Should your code, for some reason, not
work (and can't you figure out why) then this piece of code is a good
template to find the error or to replace the old code in the
scenario.lua file alltogether. The lua is fairly flexible in reading the
elements (for example, note the difference between **\['standard'\]**
and **standard** in this code and the piece directly above). The code
has the following structure: version = 3

`   ScenarioInfo = {`
`           name="yourmapname",`
`           description="`<yourmapname>`yourmapname",`
`           map="/maps/yourmapname.v0001/yourmapname.scmap",`
`           map_version=1,`
`           save="/maps/yourmapname.v0001/yourmapname_save.lua",`
`           script="/maps/yourmapname.v0001/yourmapname_script.lua",`
`           size={ 256, 256 },`
`           starts=true,`
`           preview="",`
`   `
`           type="skirmish",`
`           Configurations={`
`                   standard={`
`                           customprops={ },`
`                           teams={ { armies={"ARMY_1","ARMY_2",}, name="FFA"}}`
`                   }`
`           },`
`           `
`           norushoffsetX_ARMY_1=0,`
`           norushoffsetX_ARMY_2=0,`
`           norushoffsetY_ARMY_1=0,  `
`           norushoffsetY_ARMY_2=0,`
`           norushradius=70,`
`   `
`           }`

The following rules apply. If something is broken to the point that you
can't play your map (usually you will see spawn points in the left-top
corner, or not at all):

-   An element starts with its type (e.g. **ScenarioInfo={** is an
    element) and it ends with the **}** bracket all the way at the end.
    When an element has subelements, they can be seen in between the
    brackets, **{** and **}**. Paths and names that are referred to, are
    in quotation marks (" **''or**'' "). Subsequent elements and
    subelements are listed by the commas (**,**)

<!-- -->

-   The location of elements and subelements in an element does not
    matter. For example, the **teams** subelement has two subelements,
    **armies** and **name**. In this piece of code, **name** comes after
    **armies**, but the code above has **armies** before **name**. Even
    **"ARMY_1"** can be swapped with **"ARMY_2"**, but the comma in
    between them must remain there.

<!-- -->

-   The placement of commas and brackets does matter. It allows the
    program to correctly read the different elements as they are listed.
    For example, the **Configurations={** element has its ending bracket
    five lines lower. The comma that follows it directly, tells that
    there are more elements following (In this case, the no rush
    information). Be aware that one missing comma will make the map
    unplayable. If you happen to find that (when you try to test the
    game), the spawn points are all in the upper left corner in the
    preview (or nowhere to be seen), then search for improperly placed
    or missing commas and brackets first! It's unclear what a comma too
    much will do, as previous code (containing only the
    **Configurations** section) has some commas indicating that there
    are more subelements to follow, but there are none. In this set of
    code, all those commas are gone. Both should work, but if something
    doesn't work and there are superfluous commas, it's best to remove
    them.
-   When uploading the map to the [vault](Map_Vault "wikilink") of the
    **Forged Alliance Forever** , the **map_version** will become
    important. When the scenario is first generated by the map editor,
    this line of code will not exist yet. Similarly, your map will
    probably be the folder **/maps/yourmapname/** and its contents. The
    change of the folder name to **/maps/yourmapname.v0001/** should be
    done to ensure proper updating in the FAF map vault. When you have
    done the upload and find some things that are out of place, or
    missing, you can now simply make the changes, then change **v0001**
    to **v0002** everywhere in this scenario and in the folder name.
    Finally, change **map_version=1** to **map_version=2** and you can
    upload the same map under the same name again. Now the FAF vault
    will overwrite the old version with the new one. This system has
    been implemented to automatically clean up the map vault whenever
    someone wants a new and improved version of the map. So don't forget
    to ensure this is added in your scenario file.

If you find, after a lot of trying, that the editor-generated code is
still not making the map playable, then you can copy the full code in
this section and use it to replace the old code completely. Then, the
following parts should be changed to ensure that everything works:

1.  Every **yourmapname** should be changed to what your map name is.
2.  The number of armies must be consistent to the number of players
    that will play on your map. So if you have six armies in total, you
    should add **"Army_3","Army_4","Army_5","Army_6",** and for a total
    of 8 armies, it should of course continue to **"Army_8"**,
3.  Do the same for the no rush information. Every army number **x**
    must have a **norushoffsetX_ARMY_x=0**', and a
    **norushoffsetY_ARMY_x=0**', (If you want a different offset, that
    is of course perfectly fine).
4.  The **size={256,256}** element must have the correct numbers for its
    **x** and **y** dimension. If you have a map that is 256 by 256
    units (5km by 5km), then you can leave this alone. Otherwise, change
    the numbers to what they should be (512 for 10km, 1024 for 20km,
    2048 for 40km and 4096 for 80km). Be careful that you don't mix up
    the x and y size if you have map that isn't a perfect square.
5.  Should you not yet have renamed your map for the correct map
    version, do so. Please note that this still has **map_version = 1**,
    so if you are already beyond that version, this should change in
    accordance.