## Supreme Commander : Vanilla

![](Supcom_Vanilla.jpg "Supcom_Vanilla.jpg")

23rd February 2007 It was there, it was in your store, you could see the
commercial or the [trailer](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NP21TTJ-cPA)
on TV, Supreme Commander was released by THQ! The E3 2006 awarded RTS,
the first large scale with strategic zoom game, the spiritual son of
Total Annihilation from Chris Taylor was finally playable.

![](GPG_logos.jpg "GPG_logos.jpg")

Many players have already played the beta, or the demo on finn's
revenge, but those were only 1% of the huge community coming to the
brand new client lobby called GpGNet. The first month of the game was
not a full success. Gpg was aware of it, but sup com had a huge bullet
in the feet : Many of the players had some terrible lag problems. Only
the strongest 2007 computers were able to play more than 2vs2 on bigger
than 10x10km maps. During months they had dreamed of the colossal battle
on the announced 81x81 km maps, and then had the feeling of unability to
use the all potencial of the game they bought.

Well that being said, there were hopefully way more interesting points.
The community was born ! A very mixed age community with a 25-40 years
old generation from Total Annihilation in addition to « the yougths » A
pro scene was emmerging. At first the new comers from the Beta, like
Eshez, prepare, mrlsfleyer (aka FunkOff), DI_Corpus, RapierX, RS_Gollum
... but also the famous TAG family : TAG_ROCK, Pic, timmyfred,
TAG_Natas, nemir, HappyMan, FrogNucker were some well known TA players.
Then the ranked, the clan system, the replay vault got released. The
main chat, Halcyon was limited to 100 players not ingame so freeport and
then a 3rd chat was created. There were also some other chat rooms for
german, french, russians and all other languages, moderated by some
volunteer players. The chat helped a lot to make this community fairplay
and cheerfull, with players able to easly pm and meet their opponent
after a match and add him to a friend list. Those little tools coded by
the gpg team got really underestimated but they really made easier the
way to meet other players, and then could duplicate the life expectency
of the game.

### Top Players

A player dominated alone Supreme Commander during the 2 first months :
Unconquerable. With a 90% winratio, he was feared by all the other top
players and was winning tournament after tournament. His strategies were
very inovative, and the time top players needed to adapat to his build
orders, then he already had some new ones. His most famous game is a
roanoke abyss final where he had lost the all 6 islands, but had 20 SACU
with Ressource upgrade. With a mobile eco and buildrate, he managed to
stay in the game, with no base : one of the biggest comeback ever seen.
He also made a 2v2 ranked record of 47 wins 0 lose with his teammate
Mentel. Note :Unconq is a former Warcraft3 progamer, known under the
name of Invincible_Rice.

March 2007, This is the month when Sup Com missed to become a global
world played RTS. GpG sadly missed the WCG step and GpG didn't involved
his community in the vote that was electing the games of year 2007.
Unconquerable and SoS spent a lot of energy to make some noise around
the WCG 2007 circuit, but SupCom lost the vote to C&C : Tiberium Wars
and didn't get selected. Until 2009, the World Cyber Games was the
biggest e-sport event in the world and the cashprize were incredibly
high. That's how Warcraft 3, Counter Strike and StarCraft Broodwar were
shinning back in these early days of e-sport.

### Commentary And Casting

In 2007, the youtubers were far from existing, so it was way harder to
find some stream of official matches. Actually only 1 shootcaster was
active and famous : Deman, working with QuadV. In contact with the pro
clans of this time ( TFU, ISU, DI, CZAR, RIP, S_D, TAG, MRS...) he
manged to make some monthly casts followed up by all the community,
assisted by co-caster Gowerly. Deman also casted the i30 offline final
of Sup Com 2v2 2500£ tournament. Note :We have to notice that today
(2013) [Deman](http://lol.gamepedia.com/Deman) is the most famous
LeagueOfLegend caster and official english caster of the LCS Tournament,
as a Riot Employee.

### GPG Support and Patches

![](GPGnet.jpg "fig:GPGnet.jpg") The presence of GpG with some regular
patches and some active admins/emplyee like SonofShagrat, AngryZealot,
Servo were making SupCom looking very healthy and constant growing. Each
months new tools were avaiable. After the map and mod vault, an avatar
and award system, they added a Tournament manager tool. Some mods like
Phantom, Survival, Art of Defense or Tug of War made the glory of some
modders. Later arrived the famous ReplayBot, allowing anyone to follow
in live any game if the players had activated his replaybot. This had
never been done before and was a really appreciated tool.

Then arrived the mercy. A patch introduced 3 new units to the game to
make T2 air more usefull : Janus fightbomber for UEF, Corsair
fightbomber for Cybran and Mercy for Aeon. Of course 2 patches got
requiered to balance the mercy which was banned from all of the games at
this time.

Finaly, in May 2007, the pro scene had changed a lot. Unconquerable was
still around, but not active anymore, however some new players were
becoming extremly strong. The famous german brothers TheLittleOne and
TheBigOne, with WinTer, Mentel, Djinn and the new mascot of the game
Sir_Loui, founded the SupCom-Live clan (SCL) : a new pro clan and first
sponsored clan. Sir_Loui was the name any random player knew. #1 of the
ranking, and very friendly to the community, the sweden player was
definitly the player to follow, dominating the top 10.

![](Top10_Oct2007.jpg "fig:Top10_Oct2007.jpg") We could also mention the
names of : FunkOff and Matiz_pl for TFU, ROCK, duris, _PINK,
DragonForce(PEBBLE), Natas, Metn, Pic for TAG RS_Gollum, JacK__,
BeatleJuice, (later Beetle in SCL) -Mat- and petraque for french clan
RIP, BlueScreen, ICG, Bhaal and Melkor for ISU some other notable
players like Eshez, prepare,BrainsteelInc, monarch, Zulan, Zock,
BattleMoose, out (TheArmCommander), wetlettuce were making some good
results.

The pro scene was active, and followed by the rest of the community. At
this good timing, in June 2007, Gpg announced the breaking news ! The
company wants to push his game in the e sport lights, and announce 4
Faction Cups with important cashprizes. And announce the first Premier
Tournament of Supreme Commander : The 5000$ UEF Cup !

![](UEF_CUP.jpg "fig:UEF_CUP.jpg") The activity in gpgnet became
extremly important before and during the UEF Cup. The tournament was
hosted by the whole admin team and was split into different divisions so
that any player could enjoy and play the tournament. Of course the pro
division was the one with the biggest cashprize and when everyone was
expected to see SirLoui winning it easly, he finally got defeated by the
very solid german player: BlueScreenISU who won the UEF Cup. 2nd
Division was won by AnimaBis and 3rd Division won by Zavior.

An other patch added 3 more units to the game : T2 land long range
Mangoose for UEF, T2 land long range and anti gunship Hoplite for Cybran
and T3 anti shild Disturber for Aeon. Those 3 units were an other
preparation to the coming Add On : Forged Alliance. The global idea is
to nerf the turtle strategies, to get a more dynamic gameplay and fight
for mapcontrol.

## Forged Alliance Beta

![](AeonAscendant.jpg "fig:AeonAscendant.jpg") In October 2007, the beta
of FA was avaiable for a pretty large number of vanilla players, but the
pro scene put a last stand in SupCom vanilla for an ultimate fight, 1
month before the release of the AddOn

The 5000$ Aeon Ascendant Tournament, 2nd GpG premier tournament of his
faction cycle. When everyone was wondering who of the SCL member would
win this tournament (Sir_Loui or TLO), the favorite sweden player
Sir_Loui reached the final but lost to JacK__ a french top player. 2nd
division was won by -Mat- and 3rd division final result unknown.

Forged Alliance arrived in the end of November, but after the Aeon
Ascendant Tournament, all the players started to train on the beta.

During 2008 and 2009, vanilla was still avaiable and played by some
casual players, but the community entierly switched to Forged Alliance.
Some 1vs1 tournaments were sometimes hosted to remember the old
gameplay.

## Forged Alliance Release

![](Supcom_FA_Logo.jpg "Supcom_FA_Logo.jpg")

23rd November 2007, The first Add On of Supreme Commander is avaiable
after a community played (and listened to) Beta. A new era of the
sucessfull Sup Com was just beginning over the solid foundations of the
previous opus. The switch from Vanilla to Forged Alliance was way more
difficult and deep than most players expected.

Forged Alliance got some excellent critics and reviews. Some people were
even talking about an entire new game more than a simple Add On :

-   New graphics and optimisation
-   110 new units
-   An entire new faction : The Seraphim
-   A new campaign following the storyline
-   And before all a total rework of the gameplay.

Note : you needed Vanilla and FA to be able to play the 4 factions
online.

An all new gameplay, with the same non the less growing community. This
gameplay was searching for more dynamism and constant agression. The
turtle strategies in vanilla were too safe and the advantage gained by
good mapcontrol was not significant enough to secure a win against a
turtle strategy. With a huge nerf of the T1 (now T2) and T3 mass
fabricators, and a more spread mass extractor field, the fight for the
map was now a must have! Gpg also worked on balancing the 4 tech levels
to get those reached one after the other. Although a heavy T1 land spam
followed by a T3 air rush appeared to be one of the strongest
strategies.

Image

### New Players

On the players side : the chance for new comers, the fear of former
champions, the resistance of vanilla addicted was making an exciting and
exploding state. The community was so dynamic in every direction that it
needed some order, some leaders.. That's when the SCL team already known
from Vanilla started to organize things. A main website and forum was
avaiable for the community, and TheBigOne was organizing the SCL
Colliseum Clan League to bring some challenge in addition to the ranked
and daily tournaments. Note: SCL sadly closed his website and forum in
2010, losing an incredible amount of tournament results and archives

In the first weeks, people were talking of the « Not so easy switch »
(between vanilla and fa). We had noticed some new dangerous players in
the beta, like CrazedChariot, mephistophie_ua, Zock, Dark Ragnos or
HellsHound, however the ranking and results was there : BlueScreenISU,
more dominant than ever was taking the first place of this new ranking.
He's the one who established the « normal » 2 factories build order that
is still being everyday. He managed to reach a 80 wins 0 losses until
the first defeat from an emmerging top 10 player : Zock. Each rare lose
from BlueScreen was making a lot of noise in the community. Actually he
reached a 123-3-2 result. His other ranked lose was from the totally
unknown blackjuge then 3rd one by a disconnexion. His training partner
Bhaal was also a very dangerous top10 player.

SCL was still very active with SirLoui dominating little by little this
new game. TLO, RS_Gollum and Beetle were also part of the top20, but
some other members like Djinn, TBO or Battlemoose couldn't get used to
this new gameplay, and didn't manage to perform well.

### SCL Colliseum

The SCL Colliseum was launching his Season 1, and the clan league type
of tournament was something the community really wanted. During this
first season 300viewers (a good number for 2007 old streams)( and
probably more with livereplays) were following and supporting every week
their favorite pro clans between SCL (EU) , RIP (FR) , TAG (EU) , TFU ,
ISU (DE). The clan league was fully casted by Deman, and VoDs are still
avaiable on QuadV (requiere to create an account) :
<http://www.quadv.com/ondemand/#/game/13-supcom> With some back and
forth, it's finally the unexpected TAG clan who won with some impressive
2vs2 teamplays. ROCK, duris, Natas _PINK and the new hired player
mephistopile_ua managed to use FA's gameplay more effectivly. With the
success of this season 1, TBO and RIP's clan leader VerseauX were
launching, 2 weeks later, the season 2 in the end of December, this time
opened to any clan level. Note : From those 5 clans, sadly only TAG and
TFU clan leader (FunkOff) were still active in 2012 on FAF, although a
lot of players still comes for 1 or 2 friendly games.

2 notable players from SCL Coliseum season 1 : SCL_TheLittleOne and
TAG_ROCK_ Image

Note : TheLittleOne is a StarCraft2 professional player since 2010,
under the name of
[LiquidTLO](http://wiki.teamliquid.net/starcraft2/TLO). He's also known
on sc2 for his very creative and risky play style. He's still very
appreciated from the FAF community, who'd love to see him back to
supcom.

### Sup Com Alliance

Another important organisation was the french Website : [Sup Com
Alliance](http://www.supremecommander-alliance.com/) (SCA). Already
known in Vanilla, they were leading a weekly 2vs2 king of the hill
french tournament called Calypso. Using Teamspeak for the commentary,
livereplay for the video, and gpgnet french chat room, about 80 players
were watching this weekly tournament. Surprisingly, french international
caliber players like JacK__, Mat, VerseauX, Dark Ragnos, monarch were
losing to new underdogs like Daxterfuss, Jerchaco. The tournament was
very intense because no one managed to get the 5 wins in a row, even the
favorite Beetle and his RIP mate Minidoow failed at the 5th match.

Concerning the ladder, after the reign of BlueScreen over #1 rank,
Sir_Loui finally took the throne just at the end of the year, but
without the domination he used to get on Vanilla. Some other good new
clans were becoming dangerous and promozing for next clanleague season :

-VoW(Voices of War) with Zock, Ridley, Zulan, Kryo and FunnyPredator
(German clan) -AKC (Anarky Clan) with more than 150 members.Ciata and
Veleiro for active members. -SBL(Snake Be Long) with GovtCheese, Dawkins
and SimpleGreen31 (US clan) -VAS(Viper Assassin Squad) with mashup,
Leaf, donuhue and LawnMower (and Maverick!)

### Patch 3598

Gpg finally patched 3596 FA to 3598 in december. This patch was quite a
disapointment from the community : It arrived late, and was not fixing
more than 30% of the identified bugs. (Sera ACU was still receiving
shots in the feet, T3 strat bombers were still missing their first bomb,
etc.) Even if the game itself was a success, the lack of presence from
Gpg was a first sign of fear. Volunteer admins like TCC
(TheCoreCommander) and TAC (TheArmCommander) were not hosting
tournaments anymore, and the patches were not coming fast enough. This
is the main difference between vanilla and FA : When before Gpg was
taking part in Sup Com's life, now the events had to be organized by
clans or community websites. The community was still very active, with
800 players online each eu evening, peaks at 1000 players online.
However, people were starting to think of what Sup Com would look like
in one year.