## Live Replay

All your games are sent to a liveReplay server, so other people can
observe your game without taking your bandwidth.

### How can I watch a live replay ?

You can find all games being currently played in under the live replay
tab which is under the replay tab.

Alternatively, if you have a friend hosting a game, a blue link is
automatically posted by your friend into the main chat. All you have to
do is click on it to launch the liveReplay.

The liveReplay of a game will be active as long as someone is watching
it : Even after a game is done, there is still a chance that you can
watch it !

### Why am I sent to the FA main menu ?

You don't have the map. So you can't view the game. Download the map
(the name is given before the link) from the
[vault](Map_Vault "wikilink"), and click the liveReplay link again.

### Is it easy to cheat with that !

Yes and no : There is a 300 seconds (5 minutes) delay between the real
game and the game you are watching.

### The host left, the replay is ended, but not the game / How can I see a livereplay if I miss the link ?

Only the host is sending the link, but everybody in the game is sending
the replay to the livereplay server.

Just double click in any Sword icon of any player still in game or go to
the live replay tab.

### The (live)replay is desync !

That doesn't mean that the game is.

This could mean that you don't have mods that are being used in the
game.

It could also a bug that occurs in the FA engine : when someone leaves
the game, it can often desync the replay.

This is a bug in the engine and as result unable to be fixed.

## Replays

### Last Game doesn't work ! I can't save my replay ! WHERE ARE THEY !?

Your replays are now stored in your FAF Forged Alliance directory -
usually C:\\Program Data\\Faforever\\replays\\

You are now able to open your replays directly from the FAF client in
the [Replays tab](Replay_Vault_&_Live_Games "wikilink").

### I can't open my replay !

FAF installs a seperate directory to C:\\Program Data\\Faforever\\bin
(or whatever your primary partition is) & install the client to the root
of your primary partition (unless you specified elsewhere). Associate
the replay file with the FAF client (not the game executable but the
client executable). This will allow you to open any FAF Replay files
directly from the directory.