*Find the old Guide here:*
[1](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Cm-2ypd8KSCWaj3CFS1ICm7WkOdZmHjxyo1LCDyKFXw/edit?usp=sharing)

*This Guide covers the Seraphim faction along a 1v1 scenario, however
practices here can still be applied to teamgames, we suggest you read
the General 1v1 Guide and the Beginners guide to Forged Alliance first.*

## The Alien Menace

The Seraphim are considered to be one of the least played factions in
the 1v1 environment, in part that they are difficult to master for the
lack of diversity and options available to them. However this should not
discourage you player: the Seraphim are a rewarding faction that employ
some rather enjoyable tactics and have an attractive strength to them;
when calculated, and executed well, the Seraphim will give you the right
impression of what an alien juggernaut should look like. Be aware that
your experience with the Seraphim might be tedious when coming to
understand their shortcomings, but come to learn their strategy, and you
will show the Seraphim are as capable as every other faction.

## Basic Overview

Let’s cut to the chase: The Seraphim are a tricky faction to learn;
generally their units fall in between some of the strengths of the other
factions, like health (UEF), speed (Cybran), specialization (Aeon). It
is because of this that Seraphim tends to struggle, because they do not
have a particular strength to beat the other factions completely.
Instead, the Seraphim has to use the limited tools available to counter
some of the obvious weakness of the other factions, and effectively
destroy them while doing so.

## ACU

Your Seraphim ACU is one of the best available in combat roles, having
the similar HP of the UEF and a number of upgrades that make it a deadly
force to reckon with. It is one of two ACU’s (along with UEF) capable of
having a full gun upgrade AND the T2 suite, giving you a lot of HP and
damage output early on. Alongside your T2 tanks, the ACU is a dangerous
weapon, with available upgrades like a tactical missile launcher, a
powerful nano repair upgrade, and a secondary gun upgrade with
area-of-effect and 500% more damage. As a Seraphim player, you must use
your ACU often, but you should still be careful: it is easy to
overestimate the power of your ACU, and no matter what, losing your
commander will result in your defeat.

## Tech 1

The Tech 1 stage is good for Seraphim, not exceptional, but good in that
they can still carry on into the later stages of the game, meaning the
t1 arty (Zthuee) and scouts. T1 land is not something to depend on for a
long time, and you want to make the transition to T2 as quickly as
possible. The applies similarly to navy, with a baseline frigate that
will also do well. However, T1 air seems to stand out for the Seraphim,
with a solid T1 bomber and transport, which should be taken advantage of
when at all possible.

**Building + Engineer side notes**

The later FAF patches bring differences in building HP, you’ll find that
Seraphim (along with Aeon) falls in the middle of the road, having an
advantage over the Aeon. Another similarity with Aeon is that both your
engineers hover, this means that you’re not affected by torpedoes. Other
projectiles still work the same, however.

**Selen (Scout)**

The Selen is the first immediate example of the Seraphim design
philosophy, it’s a hybrid unit crossbred between a LAB, and a Scout.
You’ll notice it’s function to cloak (but staying immobile) right off
the bat. This intel can be placed in key locations and serve greatly for
how mobile and cheap they are to maintain, especially in critical spots.
Paired with your tank (see below) you will have created one of the
deadliest early raids in the game. The Selen has a very noticeable
weapon report and will beat other scouts handily, but it lacks a turret.
This means you’ll need your front towards the enemy in order to fire.
This is where micro can reward you.

**Thaam (Tank)**

The Thaam is the Seraphim’s t1 tank, and falls in the middle of the
other factions more specialized combat roles, making your tank an
all-purpose unit to shoot away at whatever gets in range, with a loud,
single shot cannon and an off-center barrel; the Thaam won’t let you
down. However, it won’t necessarily rise above your expectations either.
With this faction especially, fear the Aeon Aurora.

**Zthuee (Arty)**

The Zthuee, or “Zooey”, is the much-beloved poster boy of the Seraphim
T1 stage. An artillery unit with a high rate of fire, spread, and damage
output, this is a phenomenal addition that is necessary in all Seraphim
compositions. Coupled with that it floats, it is a difficult unit to
stop when en masse and swarms, capable of inflicting tremendous damage
toward priority targets. It is easily the most reliable, though more
expensive, of any other artillery unit.

It is worth mentioning that this unit is often produced in greater
numbers typically than other factions, and will still be useful up to
late stages of the game. However, it is not to say that you must replace
your baseline tank with this unit, for it dies like any other artillery,
and functions the same way too. The “Zooey” shines in a variety of
scenarios: paired along with your main t2 units (see below), being
dropped from transports, and attacking naval installations over the
water. These tactics will prove incredibly effective in high numbers,
and can alone win games when placed in the right hands.

**Ia-istle (MAA)**

A decent side note about Seraphim AA is that unlike the AA of other
factions, Seraphim AA doesn’t lead it’s targets. That means that instead
of aiming in front of a moving target, it relies on extremely high shot
velocity to snipe air targets out of the sky. This does mean, however,
that shots can miss, but you’ll still find the Ia-istle to be as
functional or even better than its counterparts. The only other thing
special about it is that it’s the only T1 aa to walk around instead of
drive, this makes no difference in-game.

**Air + Navy side notes**

Seraphim have the best Transports at any stage, and the T1 variant holds
an extra 2 units compared to the human factions 6 total. A fan favorite
of Seraphim players is to pair your Transports and great artillery to
inflict nasty punishment on a player that doesn’t shoot your drop down.

The Seraphim Submarine is noted for having an extra gun (a “Deck gun”)
when surfaced. The gun stacks on extra DPS and is great for picking off
floating engineers or assisting in battles when the torpedoes are not
doing quite enough.

Your T1 bomber is considered the best T1 bomber and drops a large damage
bomb with good area-of-effect, it's great for fighting away Aurora tanks
or stacking on damage to whatever you decide must die today.

## Tech 2

The true strength of the Seraphim is in the T2 stage, and that spans
over land, air, and navy. What makes this true is not only the good
units all around, but the way that the player is able to use them. Poor
usage and micro will ultimately lead you to defeat, but often a Seraphim
player will simply not take advantage of the tools he already has. By
themselves, T2 land, navy, or air will struggle to do the job, but when
used together will be absolutely savage. Consider these options: using
an combat upgraded com with your T2 land; T2 land and air allow for
groups of illshavohs to be dropped anywhere on the map; T2 navy with
land can open up more options in the naval game. Using your natural T2
advantage, as early on as possible, is what will often ensure your
victory in your battles to come.

**Building + Engineer side notes**

Contrary to popular belief, Seraphim (Instead of UEF) has the shield
with the highest HP, and it has the largest radius. Your TMD (Tactical
Missile Defense) is on the better side of the TMD spectrum, and your T2
Point Defense is a beam laser; making it a much loved turret for it’s
higher accuracy. This doesn’t make it the best, however.

Your T2 sonar platform is better than the T2 Sonar of the other
factions, But you don’t have a T3 Sonar.. Considering how cheap and
effective T3 sonar can be, this is considered a major disadvantage.

As always, your engineer floats. And your structure HP falls in the
middle of the road.

**Yenzine (Hover Tank)**

The Yenzine is the Seraphim hover tank for the T2 stage, a fast tank
with a high damage, low ROF cannon. Best used to fight over water
surfaces when light to little naval units are present. They’re cheaper
than your main T2 unit, and have a very low vision radius, so try to
keep them in radar range, the Yenzine also one shots Aurora tanks, so if
you’re desperate and lack the time to make Assault bots, the Yenzine
might become your saving grace. We suggest you don’t rely on it however.

**Illshavoh (Assault Bot)**

The Illshavoh, or “Ilshy” is Seraphim combat power made manifest; a
heavy bipedal bot with twin bolters that will destroy anything up to
even some T3 units without much of a challenge. As with anything else,
your bot is not invulnerable, and it a bigger loss for an illshavoh to
die to an ACU’s “Overcharge” function then a T2 unit from another
faction, It’s simple and effective, be very afraid of this unit in high
numbers. The Illshavoh is also a great companion unit for a combat acu,
providing a great ranged backup that can slaughter hordes of lower tech
units if you’ve rushed for an early t2 stage. Dropping your early bots
will win you map control fast, and as long as you don’t throw your units
away, you’ll powerhouse your way into a nice lead. Packs of illshavoh
become more dangerous in higher numbers, and can fight off a few T3 land
units if your opponent rushes them. Don’t try and use this unit vs many
T3 units however, your T3 tank (see below) is still considered a better
choice for the stage.

**Iashavoh (Flak)**

Hover flak is a benefit compared to Flak that doesn't, and no matter
your preference on faction you will be using flak to ruin Tech 2 and
under air power that flies into range, Seraphim AA is a slow firing but
heavy damage Flak round that again doesn’t lead targets, but will do the
job as well as other flak units either way.

**Ythisah (MML)**

Your MML is considered generic, it's nothing compared to the Cybran’s
Viper, but you’ll be using this unit to outrange T2 pd’s anyways; if you
don’t just brute force your way past them with your T2 bots, that is.

**Air + Navy side notes**

Your gunship shoots very slowly, and is prone to missing, it's not
considered a top tier gunship, but it’s not unusable.

Your T2 transport is amazing, offering a huge carrying capacity of 8 T2
tanks or even 4 T3 ones. You can also pack 16 T1 units into one for a
nasty surprise.

Your T2 cruiser can fling missile’s from a huge distance at targets on
the shore, perfect for abusing your naval win, if you get one. Winning
it may be tough, as you'll need to be good with your destroyer to secure
dominance. Submerge your destroyer to avoid surface fire but don’t rely
on it’s torpedoes to win alone.

## Tech 3

Things look a little worse when entering the T3 stage, as your land
units comparably suffer when facing the T3 of other factions. The key to
land at this stage is composition, as Seraphim you will not be able to
depend solely on one unit type to survive in this stage. When your
varied T3 units compliment each other extremely well, your land can
become far more effective given the right composition. The naval
situation looks up for the Seraphim, having the unique T3 Subhunter that
becomes dangerous in huge groups. The battleship is also unique because
it also acts as your sea based nuke platform, unlike the dedicated
submarines of the other factions. T3 air does not have much going for
them, since they lack any T3 gunship like the other factions, but having
air control, the Seraphim can abuse the experimental bomber, and when
used effectively is a terrifyingly fast and game-changing weapon at any
point of the game.

**Building + Engineer side notes**

Your Stationary AA turret is a fast velocity rifle, compared to a
missile launcher, It’s usefulness is shown against T3 air scouts, which
other AA struggle to kill quickly.

Your shield still has amazing HP and size, but your engineer, Building
HP, and now even T3 Stationary arty still fall in the middle of the
road.

**Othuum (Tank)**

As the standard Seraphim T3 battletank, the Othuum is considered to be
the most cost-efficient unit vs. T3 units of other factions on paper,
but performs arguably as the worst. The damage output is strong, and
health is decent, but it suffers as a result of low speed and the
different ranges between its two sets of weapons, since it must be
within the smaller range to dish out it’s full dps, if it doesn’t manage
to shoot the ground. The Othuum is great as a generic T3 tank, able to
punish defenses and destroy valuable targets, with greater ease than
other faction equivalents. This tank should be built as the main
frontline unit if against another T3 land army, but it is vital that you
build the incredible T3 shields with it, as a group of Othuums will
benefit from a 10k health bonus that will extend their lives and damage
potential. Against Cybran and Aeon the Othuum can do okay, but against
the UEF’s Percivals, they will be far too weak contend with them, and
better off with other options. With a T2 transport it is great unit to
drop behind enemy lines and snipe critical targets, as other factions
can’t drop many T3 land units as easily as the Seraphim.

**Usha-Ah (Sniper Bot)**

Seraphim’s sniper bot is considered the better of the two, the other
belonging to the Aeon faction. It’s dual modes allow you to spam long
range shots or prepare high damage single fire for attacks against beefy
targets or a stranded ACU. The Sniper however is low on the HP side and
can miss if it’s moving, so very good micromanagement is needed to use
the bot. It’s natural companion is the T3 shield, which can become it’s
saving grace if targeted by air units.

**Athanah (Shield)**

Seraphim has a T3 shield instead of a T2 one, maybe to Nerf the
potential power of the Ilshy, who knows, however the T3 shield can still
provide a massive HP increase to anything inside the bubble, at an
expensive power cost. Be careful making these shields if you’re still
running T2 power generators.

**Suthanus (Arty)**

You have a Generic T3 mobile arty, it fires long range ordinance to
shell enemy bases and outrange UEF’s Ravager turrets, but has to deploy
in order to fire, it’s also the only T3 arty to waddle around on 4 legs,
but again, it's only aesthetics. Protect your arty with shields and aa
to stop counterattacks and enemy bases will crumble under your siege
weapons.

**Uyanah: (MAA/Lighting Tank)**

FAF introduced T3 mobile AA into the base game, and the Seraphim are
gifted with a Lightning tank to both zap air units and lash out at
surface units as well. Players still enjoy using flak guns in tandem
with T3 units, but if you need to hit fast flying t3 air, this unit will
be your port of call.

**SACU side notes**

The Seraphim SACU is noteworthy because it may be upgraded with an
overcharge function, making it possibly the best combat SACU in the
game, they can also be upgraded with tactical missile launchers, and in
groups can launch deadly barrages at whatever you choose. However in
later stages of the game the Seraphim SACU cannot be upgraded with RAS,
so your eco choices are limited. Automatic Overcharges pair well with
groups of Seraphim SACUS, and can melt away T4 units if you have the
power to spend.

**Air + Navy side Notes**

The T3 Aircraft Carrier also doubles up as another missile platform,
with an amazing range.

The battleship, as discussed before, is the alternative to the nuclear
missile submarines of the other factions, If you choose to build a nuke
from your battleship, make sure to protect it.

The T3 Subhunter also doubles up as an AA platform if surfaced, use it
to fend off torpedo bombers if needed, be wary of the Aeon T3 Torpedo
bomber, as one barrage of torpedoes dropped from one will kill your Sub.

## Tech 4

This stage of the Seraphim game is unfortunately underwhelming versus
the other factions’ options, which is why SACU’s are generally your
better options against them. There are certain things to know about the
Seraphim experimentals: firstly, they are the only faction with 3
available experimentals, not counting the secondary one that only
emerges from a Ythotha’s corpse, compared to the other factions 4;
secondly, the two main experimentals commonly seen are considered to be
either too weak or simply buggy in usage. The Ythotha is argued to be
the worst option for direct fire experimentals, and the Ahwassa has many
problems that keep it from dropping its bomb, which can lead to
disaster. The Yolona Oss is far too costly to ever be seen except for
late game, and even though a powerful nuclear launcher, it far more
common to see a paragon than this experimental. These tend to be
overlooked for their limited use and access, but it is still viable to
build them, as they are still powerful tools when used right.

**Ythotha (Experimental Assault bot)**

The Ythotha bot sits somewhere in-between the Weaker Cybran Monkeylord
and the Stronger Aeon Galactic Colossus in power, and has three
different weapons to shoot at enemy units. The first one is a minigun
style weapon that is always on and does a decent amount of DPS, the
second gun, on the other arm, is a Railgun that fires occasionally and
hits targets with a good velocity for a nice amount of damage and AOE.
The third weapon is a giant, slow firing death ball launched from it’s
head. It does a lot of damage with a large AOE, but can be dodged.
Overall the unit is decent, but try to engage units from the small range
advantage, and avoid straight up battles with enemy ACU’s unless you
know you can win, for example if they’re fleeing or weak, or if the
player doesn’t know how to dodge your shots.

When the Ythotha Dies, it spawns the infamous lightning ball, which
lingers around corpse and damages units in it’s radius, friend or foe.
This “unit” is not controllable, if you know your bot will die, try to
plant it’s corpse in the middle of the enemy, and not around any of your
units,

**Ahwassa (Experimental Bomber)**

First seen in the opening cutscene of Forged alliance, the “asswasher”
bomber is a flying T4 monstrosity that drops bombs capable of leveling
entire bases and instantly killing all but the most tanky ACU’s. It’s
also equipped with a minor AA system, to protect it from fighters, but
you should protect your bombers with fighters of your own. If you self
destruct your bomber at the same time you drop a bomb (listen for the
sound) you can inflict extra damage on target, this strategy is referred
to as a “T4 Mercy”, however be careful not to donate the mass sunk into
the bomber if you miss.

**Yolona Oss (Experimental Nuclear Missle Launcher)**

The biggest boom in the game, and one of the mostly costly experimentals
to ever build, besides the Aeon Paragon, the Yolona Oss is a terrifying
weapon that builds nuclear missiles at unbelievable speed, and each
missile requires two antinuke missiles to stop. It should be launched
constantly to abuse the build speed of the nuke, and once able to punch
through, will kill everything in its blast zone. DEATH.

## Rehash

The T1 stage should be used as to delay your opponent until the T2
transition, with a few units that can still carry on beyond even the T2
stage. The T3 stage is not particularly strong, but relies on its
composition to get the job done. T4 has limited options, and do not
perform ideally versus the other factions, so the occasional
experimental and SACUs are the best options to counter them. However,
“Tech 2” is the magic word for the Seraphim, it is the stage where most
of their strengths shine the most. This stretches to T2 land, navy, and
air surprisingly. Even their ACU will thrive in this stage, when
provided the right upgrades and an army to boot. For the T2 stage, a
detailed explanation is given:

\~ T2 Land: The infamous Illshavoh (Illshy) is a powerful unit, and will
be the main battlefront for your forces. It is common to take advantage
of the natural strength the Seraphim have with this unit and other
decent T2 tanks, but coupled with T2 air (as explained in the T2 Air
section) and ACU will even prove to be a game changing element that
should be pressed, and pressed hard.

\~ T2 Navy: At first glance, the T2 navy may not appear to be anything
much, but it is not something to be taken lightly. The destroyer, when
microed properly, is a decent baseline unit for your navy, having the
ability to submerge when possibly in danger of being swarmed saves it
from dangerous spots, and it’s primary weapon puts out reliable
damage-per-second. The cruiser is dependable as well, and like the UEF
cruiser will waste coasts and shores with an unending barrage of its
TML.

\~ T2 Air: Sure, the T2 bomber may not be the best in comparison to the
UEF or Cybran variant, and the gunship is (trash) mediocre. However as
Seraphim, it is the utility of your T2 transport, which is arguably the
best in the game (behind the superiority of tech with the UEF T3
transport). Capable of dropping 16 T1, 8 T2, and 4 T3 units (wow!), the
transport can deliver large groups into places that may otherwise be
impossible to reach. This allows for the movement of what is normally a
slow, powerful army to be placed in potentially important places, and
can possibly be game-winning, and must not be underestimated.

With this, we hope that your future battles against the human scum will
be victorious in the 1v1 competition. If you’re still not on board with
the Seraphim, feel free to ask Questions in #aeolus, The FAF discord, or
seek a trainer.