---
title: Three-Essential-Habits-for-the-New-Player
description: 
published: true
date: 2021-09-08T12:16:58.491Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2021-08-31T09:45:31.195Z
---

Hello and welcome to our little community that is Forged Alliance
Forever! This guide is intended to give you, the brand new player, what
you need to begin your FAF career as a competitive player, both for the
global and ladder scene. These are key principles you need, that are not
only critical for you to learn, but are imbued in every player in the
community, even in the high level pros.

## Foreword

As a new player, it is not expected that you will understand many of the
games core mechanics and basic principles to playing when you enter the
competitive scene, which is why tutorials and other guides will be
necessary for you to learn your way through the learning curve that FAF
is known for.

It is important to know that this is not a “training” page, as it is
common for trainers to be asked for help from the new player, and as
such this guide was inspired to give essential tips and advice that are
vital for entering the competitive scene. The reason for this is often
due to the difficulty for trainers to provide help for players who may
not understand the game to begin with, and most of what a trainer may
have to offer will be lost on those who are not ready to apply and
practice with what they are given. It is encouraged for new players to
play lots of games and to earn some skill and rating before they may
have a proper training session; however do not be afraid to ask
questions! There is lots to learn about the game, and trainers can help
with pointing out helpful bits necessary to begin your career.

Note that if you are a new player and don't intend to be “competitive”
or “serious” about playing, this guide may not be helpful to you.
Learning to improve and earn skill will take time and practice, and if
you do not want this, some of the information here may not apply to you.
Do read on if you are curious and want to learn how to get good!

## Essential Habits

**1. Playing:** As trivial and mundane this might be, it is a
surprisingly tedious thing to reiterate to new players, and a deciding
factor if players will stay in the community! Often new players may
become overwhelmed from their first few games, as often skill gap and
game meta will discourage them from putting in more effort than they
should. It is frustrating not only for the new player, but for everyone
else, as trainers who have put time and effort in training those who
give up after a few games are only considered a waste of potential. Here
are a couple of extra points to remember for this particular habit:

:\***Play Ladder or Ranked Team games:** While it is encouraged overall
to play, and you are welcome to play any mode, there is not much use to
playing in sandbox or non-competitive game modes in order to get good,
as they will not teach good behaviors and strategies for the ranked
situations. Playing against an AI is similar, and while you can learn
the game's mechanics and get some practice this way, it is a far worse
teacher than getting your hands dirty in a real game, as the AI is
static, slow, and predictable, vs a real player who will use any and all
opportunities available to crush you. A personal bit of advice on this
subject is that “You learn faster on fire”, meaning you are far less
willing to repeat failed mistakes and more attentive toward learning
effective strategies, if you are put in a game in which the stakes are
high.

:\***Get Used to Losing:** Everyone has been there, everyone knows about
finding out the hard way about how bad you are, and how dumb some of the
strategies might appear. They might seem impossible to overcome, and way
beyond your grade, but many active players can tell you how many
thousands of games they have lost to earn their ranking, and how their
first hundred games were absolutely miserable as the new guy. However,
you will notice that these veterans push through in spite these, and
accept that in playing in a competitive game with all kinds of room for
error, that the feeling of winning in spite all odds can be incredible
and exhilarating, which is all part of the reason they love playing FAF.

:\***Practice Makes Perfect:** Definitely not an original concept, but
it really is true with skill. You will watch all kinds of tutorials and
read up on everything conceivable to prepare yourself for the games
ahead, and while they do work wonders, nothing really prepares you as
well as intuition against the unforeseeable. Every game can lead into
all kinds of outcomes, and without much practice, not only will you not
be prepared mentally for the potential threats that come with every
single action, but you will not have the muscle memory to execute
everything you may want to do. This all comes with time and practice, as
things will start to feel natural, like paying attention to your economy
and adjusting, as well as handling your armies and thinking ahead about
your every move to win the game.

**2. Watching Replays:** A great feature included in FAF can be found in
the “Replays” tab, and just as it sounds, you can watch games that you
or other players have been in once they are over. The importance of
watching your own replays cannot be understated, you need these to see
your own mistakes and understand why the game happened the way it did.
Players often go back and review these to find out how they can change
their behavior in a match, as well as understand how they should be
playing on certain maps, as build orders and play styles will often
change drastically depending on which ones they are. This is, of course,
important for both team games and 1v1s, as different concepts will
apply, but they can all be obtained from watching replays of not only
your own games, but of other ones as well. Here are a couple of extra
points to remember for this particular habit:

:\***Break Down EVERYTHING:** It is not only your own play style that
you need to watch, but everything about what your opponent was doing in
the game that needs attention as well. From the build order to economy
and expansions, to management of units from start to finish, you should
dissect anything you can to understand what happened that either lead to
your victory or defeat. This is especially handy for when you receive
training, as you can pinpoint and learn what trainers will be addressing
to you and how it impacts the game. Note that it is better to analyze
replays that you lose, because while you can learn from a good win how
to make it more efficient, you have much more to gain from understanding
how your opponent exploited your weaknesses, as you should be learning
how to counter his strategies so that you can avoid losses in the
future. This lends just as much help in learning your opponents
weaknesses, and how you can take advantage of his mistakes and openings
for your own success.

:\***Watch Higher Level Replays:** As a new player, you are likely going
to be playing against those in similar elo to you, which is healthy for
where you are at, but not something you want to stay in. Learning to
exploit these low tier players may let you defeat them effectively, but
you will need to obtain the fundamental skills needed to start competing
against competent players, which on average begins at the 800-1k
rankings. You can watch the top high level pro replays as you wish, but
you are not likely to understand and figure what it is that they are
doing that puts them where they are, just that they are the pinnacle of
effective plays and strategies. You will want to start watching 1k level
replays, as they will be able to demonstrate a beginner's level
application of proper build orders and play styles, which as you look
toward higher skill levels, you will see more developed and advanced
behaviors that will come to you as you work your way up from the basics.

**3. Communicating:** A surprising habit sure, but it is consistent and
clear that coordinating and engaging with other players tends to not
only help you improve as a player, but make the game far more enjoyable
as well! From personal experience, making friends has done wonders in
opening the community and making many experiences easier, since this not
only allows you to play with people you like, but could in turn allow
you to help each other out. This does not elusively apply to team games,
as being familiar and chatting with opponents in ladder can do a lot of
good in healthy competition. The advantages of this lets you: fill up
games fast, host your games and play together, join clans, having others
analyze replays and share their thoughts on your games, etc. Here are a
couple of extra points to remember for this particular habit:

:\***Teamwork:** A strong strategy in team games is quite simply being
communicative with your team, as pinging and chatting with your fellow
combatants allows you to pull off plans that would have been difficult
on your own. It is not uncommon to have players pooling resources
together in order to rush nukes or experimentals when a game changing
tactic needs to happen, as well as moving armies together to defeat your
opponents. In turn, this also allows you to prevent your teammates from
suffering horrible losses because of a previously unseen threat, and
avoid situations that would put the entire team at a disadvantage. Never
underestimate the power of teamwork!

:\***Ask Questions:** As said before, there is no harm in asking
questions, as there are a lot of things that even some higher level
players are not familiar with, especially in a game that offers wide
varieties of strategies and tactics. You do not need to ask trainers
either, as there are regular players who can give you feedback on
whatever it is you need to clarify. You will need this if you want to
get familiar with the various personalities and individuals in the
community, as they can help you in other ways, such as if you have
technical issues or have advice on say computer setups, etc., there is
no need to be shy!

:\***Make Friends!:** As silly as it sounds, friends do make a world of
a difference, as it lends itself to the previous point of getting good
answers to your questions, as well as lending you support from different
sources. Having all kinds of people to talk to allows you to familiarize
yourself with the different groups of the community, and opportunities
that they can offer to you. Higher level players can offer you all kinds
of help and support that a trainer might, which is much easier if they
are familiar and friendly with you. Coupled with this, voice chat is a
superb way to talk with and enjoy the good company of some fellow
players, which is typically offered through FAF Discord, Mumble, or
Teamspeak.

## Notes

Before we wrap things up with this guide, here are a couple of notes to
keep in mind with these habits:

-   Playing competitively can become stressful, so it is a good idea to
    take breaks whenever you need to, as it is a lot healthier to step
    away from the game if you feel you are not doing your best, and to
    come back later.


-   Rating will be an issue early on, as many players will have
    restrictions on what skill level can enter their lobbies, but this
    is a common problem that can be overcome with persistence. There are
    often “All Welcome” lobbies for any rank, as well as noob lobbies,
    though do be aware that any host can kick for any reason they see
    fit, and it is somewhat common for 0 rated players. If you have
    trouble here, simply host your own lobbies, and try to invite
    players with similar ranking as you, as there are many of them in
    our community, you are not alone!


-   Do not take ranking seriously, especially at a low elo that you will
    be at. It is something that you will start to care about as you rise
    through the ranks, and in a competitive scene it is healthy to want
    to push yourself and have pride in your success. However, caring too
    much about rank can be harmful, as it can make players toxic and
    salty. While it is understandable to be frustrated about losing, it
    should never be an excuse to act out in a way that is disrespectful
    and crude, as you will only make the experience miserable.


-   Team games and ladder are very different elements of FAF, and you
    should remember this as you apply these principles to your play
    style. In 1v1s, you are pitted against an opponent with the same
    resources and obstacles that is the map, and you are solely
    responsible to use everything in your power to defeat him. In team
    games however, the situations change with everything that includes
    where players are spawned and how the map is designed, as you may be
    positioned in ways that you are encouraged to play a particular
    style. An example of this is Gap of Rohan, where the two middle
    players will typically rush middle for reclaim and act as the “front
    player”, while the two players top/bottom will act as the “eco/air”
    slot.

## Conclusion

So this was the three essential habits for any new player to learn!
There are many other guides that will further support you in learning
the mechanics as well as the general build orders needed to compete in
the higher ranked games, and it is encouraged for you to check them out!
With this information at your disposal, go out there and play as you
will, and we look forward to seeing you progress on the battlefield.

*Written by: WiseOldDog*