## **Overall**

Fatboy is an experimental unit of the UEF, with a bubble shield
generator and ability to build any UEF ground unit quickly. It is
designed to destroy firebases and Point Defences from a distance, out
ranging every other ground unit in the game aside from tech 2 artillery.
This makes it a good unit against large t3 armies and experimentals,
being able to harass them from a distance without them being able to
fire back. It costs 28k mass and 350k energy.

## **What to use for**

It has a high range, so it can be used to attack almost every ground
unit without them being able to fire back. It easily destroys units such
as T3 mobile artillery, while being out of range and having high hp and
shield. The fatboy acts fast-firing artillery itself, doing high damage
to anything within range and importantly able to move while firing,
enabling kiting and chasing. The fatboy also has a mobile factory
function which allows it to make units anywhere, but the fatboy has to
stop moving and shooting. It can be useful to get essential units such
as flak, engineers, mobile shields on the front lines.

The Fatboy has 4 3-barreled gauss cannons, and you should aim to get at
least 3 firing at the same time, with a 45 degree angle to what you're
shooting at, either retreating or advancing. If the cannons on multiple
sides can only target different units, they will fire at the targets, so
the Fatboy can attack many things at once. It also has a very poor AA,
which should be ignored in favour of getting the fatboy proper air
defence with flak or SAMs. It does however have a riot gun that can
eliminate t1/t2 units if they get close. In practice though the fatboy
should be always protected by groups of Percivals.

## **How to counter**

Fatboy is very weak in comparison to other experimentals and t3 units
with its 20k shield and 12500 HP points. Fatboys are also countered by
shielded t2 stationary artillery significantly, although take care that
you will still need many of them and several shields, remember that the
fatboy is 28k mass, and you should spend a not-inconsiderable amount to
counter it. A stationary or predictable fatboy can be killed by tactical
missles. The weak aa and low hp means that strategic bombers and
gunships can destroy the fatboy easily unless it has dedicated AA
support. The faster T3 units can also defeat a fatboy, loyalists and
titans being able to run under the shield. Chasing a Fatboy with another
experimental is not recommended, as it's likely you will get kited and
just lose hp, or worse you will lose the unit and the reclaim, as any
engineers sent to reclaim the wreck will also be pulverised by the
fatboy's cannons. If you do manage to catch the fatboy, it will die
within seconds of getting into range. A monkeylord's stealth and speed
mean that it's almost the only experimental unit capable of doing so.