A **Land Scout** is the absolute most basic reconaissance unit you can
build. They are extremely weak, unable to stand up to even a light
assault bot, but they do have good radar and view coverage for their
price and availability. They still serve a function even into the late
game as living shields and diversions, as well as spotting for
artillery, missiles, and so forth. Their rock-bottom build times and
prices are second only to wall sections, allowing you to wage rather
intense psychological warfare on your opponent.

## General Characteristics

All Land Scouts are fast, and all but the Cybran are armed with a small
gun (all mostly ineffective when compared to main combat units of T1).
All land scouts have radar of a reasonable range - making them a viable
means for basic base defence early on, giving you an early warning of
what's to come. Typical uses for T1 Land Scouts would be keeping them in
a battlegroup to allow units to fire before the enemy comes into range,
or using them as an early-warning radar system instead of producing T1/2
radar to cover a base. When doing this, note that they are still easily
destroyed, and so should only be used in the early game when producing a
radar installation is often more difficult and time consuming than
producing scouts. They still can be useful later; building a large mass
of them (which is very, very easy) and advancing them towards the enemy
can be a very effective distraction while a real assault force hits
elsewhere. They can also become bait for enemy defense structures to
attack first, forcing overkill and allowing your main force to hang back
and bombard the enemy structures. Said structures may gain veterency but
as always time is more valuable than anything in Supreme Commander.

## Factional Differences

The Cybran land scout does not have a weapon at all, but does have the
highest turn rate and the ability to cloak itself - meaning that it will
only be detected by radar. This makes it exceptionally vulnerable to
other scouts in the early game, but until your opponent has radar set
up, it can be left in the middle of strategic locations to watch for
troop movements without the enemy realising that you are watching them.

The Seraphim combat scout is really a general purpose unit. It has both
cloaking and stealth, meaning that if it remains stationary (and does
not fire etc) it will be completely invisible to anyone without Omni. It
can also be used for flanking, and ambushing, as its weapon does
reasonable damage (although is still roughly 1/3 that of other T1 Light
Assault Bots). In contrast to this advantages, the Seraphim scout has
the smallest radar radius, and costs more in comparison to the other
factions.

The UEF and Aeon land scouts have almost identical stats - the UEF one
costs more and has more health, whereas the Aeon one has the greatest
radar radius, can hover and moves slightly faster - allowing it to be
positioned over water, increasing its effectiveness.

As of patch 3603, the UEF land scout has its damage doubled to 4 damage
per shot, the Aeon land scout's health decreased from 23 to 20, the
Cybran scout is built by default with its cloak deactivated and turning
it on costs 5 energy per second, and both the Cybran and Aeon scouts
have their radar range increased by 5. Although this increases the
effectiveness of Cybran and Aeon scouts to do their job of collecting
intelligence, this allows a UEF scout to consistently beat away both
enemy Cybran and Aeon scouts without light assault bot support and
survive longer to provide intelligence, even if it's range is slightly
shorter.

A good trick is to make alot of aeon scouts, then make them surround a
factory. If your opponent has radar of the area, they will believe you
have an army of engineers building an army of units, while you will just
build scouts. Move the army within radar range of an outpost or base,
than let your opponent move their ACU away from the spot. Use bombers or
gunships to attack it as it flees.

However, if your opponent is aggressive, they may attack the army with
one of their own that isn't made up of scouts. In that case, your army
will be slaughtered and the enemy will gain veteran xp. counter that
scenario by self destructing the units so they don't become punching
bags.