**Armored Assault Bots** are T3 bots which are significantly more
powerful and expensive than other T3 units, so much so that some refer
to them as "Tech 3.5".

The two Tech 3 armored assault bots are the UEF Percival and the Cybran
Brick. Both are amphibious, and both have significant range.

The Aeon Illuminate and Seraphim do not have armored assault bots but
have Sniper Bots instead.

## Factional Differences

The UEF Percival is more prone to overkill due to its initial shot
damage of 1600. It also has a much lower ROF than its Cybran
counterpart. It does, however, have more HP and DPS than the Brick.

The Cybran Brick has a greater rate of fire and is, therefore, better
for facing groups of T1 or T2 units. It is also much better suited for
crossing water safely, as it has a torpedo system and flares. A group of
ten or more Bricks will have decent self defensive cababilities, though
they should not be given a combative role.

The UEF Percival can be an alternative to the Aeon and Seraphim's Sniper
Bots. They have a 40% longer build time and cost 43% more energy and 50%
more mass. They have about 20 times higher health, 3 times higher DPS
and 40% more projectile damage than an Aeon Sniper Bot (in between the
two modes of the Seraphim Sniper Bot).

In direct combat, one UEF Percival will beat one Cybran Brick, but the
Percival's low rate of fire will increase its vulnerability when facing
large groups.

## Strategy

Armored Assault Bots are useful for escorting or defending against
experimental units.

These units, while substantially more powerful than a standard unit, are
also substantially more expensive. On the flip side, a handful of these
units can hold their own against an experimental unit. It is not rare to
see a Cybran Monkeylord destroyed by a group of Percivals. Percivals are
particularly effective against Fatboys: armored enough to take the
Fatboy's massive damage output until they are inside the shield and can
take one or two final shots. A group of twelve or more should take out a
Fatboy. In fact, these units are the missing level between Tech 3 and
Experimental. You should build them if your economy is strong enough,
but can't build any experimental units yet.

Armored Assault Bots are also perfect back up to your experimental
units. They are the only units that can take the splash damage directed
at the experimental units, and they are great at increasing the army's
damage output, and cleaning up around your experimental units.

The Brick is very capable of carrying out attacks with very little
escort, but it is important to remember that Percivals only fire once
every 4 seconds, so it can be killed by a surround of units, even tech 1
units. Escort for Percivals is absolutely necessary, therefore, unless
you have enough Percivals to deal with a swarm of units. Titans are
excellent escorts for Percivals, thanks to a much higher rate of fire,
shielding, and the ability to chase down escaping units, including
faster experimentals if need be.

Like all T3 Bots, the Armored Assault Bot is particularly suitable for
airborne landing operations. Dropping them behind the enemy lines, is a
very effective way to maximize the amount of destruction in unprotected
areas. It can even be used for sniping Commanders. Keep in mind that T1
transporters can carry one bot, while T2 transporters can carry 2-4
depending on the faction.

## Trivia

An interesting thing about armored assault bots, and submersible land
units in general is that they can fire while semi-submerged, as long as
their firing point is out of the water (for Percivals, their
shoulder-cannon, and for Bricks, a little red dot that kinda looks like
an eye) they can target and destroy units on land, but those units
cannot target the armored assault bot. This includes air units,
excluding the Torpedo Bombers.

[Category:Amphibious Units](Category:Amphibious_Units "wikilink")