The Universal Resurrection Cup was a high-class 1v1 tournament hosted by
Blackheart which took place from 6th October 2014 until 3d November
2014, totaling 28 days length. Preceding the actual tournament, a
qualification tournament was held on the 28th of September 2014.
<img src="URCteaser.jpg" title="fig:URCteaser.jpg" width="500" alt="URCteaser.jpg" />

## Promotion

The promotion of the URC began on the 15th September 2014 and lasted 14
days. During the promotion phase the qualification tournament was held.
The URC was presented as an intergalactic tournament that was meant to
resurrect the activity of old and skilled players. The promotion began
with a rather vague post in the [FAF
forums](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=80711#p80711),
starting up the story of a sole commander getting almost accidentally
dragged onto the planet on which the URC was taking place. At this point
the full tournament name was unknown, and a fun game to guess for
observers (also on
[Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/ForgedAllianceForever/photos/a.357450947677604.81848.278165288939504/727286014027427/?type=1)).

Three days later, the first update was posted, again in the
[forums](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=80886#p80886).
It contained a small riddle which, if you managed to solve it, granted
one spot in a lottery which would decided over one spot in the URC. Also
the updated contained more information about the tournament, including
the tournament name, some players, and more.

The next update continued the story, revealing more information yet
again and also announcing the winner of the lottery, which was *Vee*. It
also announced the qualification tournament, which is the official end
to the promotion phase and decided 3 additional spots in the URC.

## Qualification Tournament

The qualification tournament was held at the end of the promotion phase,
which was the 28th September 2014. The complete announcement can be
found in the
[forums](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=81107#p81107).
As it is rather unusual for tournaments on FAF, the qualification
tournament was [swiss
style](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss-system_tournament). Also a
small trailer made by lextoc was published
([here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyhcB_4q9Sc)).

Several good players signed up to fight for the 3 spots in the main
tournament. Only one player could show clear dominance in winning all
games, which was Chevalier who rightfully claimed the first place. The
next 2 spots needed to get decided by using tiebreakers, as 4 players
(Mr-Smith, Juraj, MrMackey and TA4Life) had equal score, winning 4 games
and losing 1 each. According to the qualification tournament rules, a
FFA on Four-Corners was played, which Mr-Smith won after out-ecoing the
other players who took a more aggressive approach. The remaining 3
players arranged together with the tournament director a different
tiebreaker than the originally planned FFA. They played a small 1v1
tournament, where everyone played a match against each other, which was
won by TA4Life with winning all of his games, hence gaining the last
spot in the URC. MrMackey hence placed 4th and Juraj 5th, unexpectedly,
as Juraj only had a very low rating. The full results of the
qualification tournament without tiebreakers can be seen
[here](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=82115#p82115).

## Main Tournament

The main tournament was finally announced on 5th October 2014, just one
day before it already started. It revealed all of the 16 players, as
well as all rules and prizes to fight over. The full post with all
rules, maps, prizes, TDs, and more can be found
[here](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=82743#p82743).

### Complete tree

A complete result tree can be found
[here](http://challonge.com/urcfaforever). Complete cast coverage
(thanks to Napalm) can be found in this
[playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLFhx8BcGnEINQcAwTDHdLVDfKDcE_Rt3K).

### Participants

As it was a single elimination setting, 16 players were required in the
URC. Additionally to the 4 spots that were on stake in the lottery and
the qualification tournament, 12 players got selected by the TD and
invited to play in the URC, making it a mostly invitational tournament.
One player sadly had big technical issues, so could not play the URC and
was replaced by the 4th place in the qualification tournament, which was
MrMackey. The complete list of participants is hence as follows:

| Name         |
|--------------|
| LuXy         |
| Isen         |
| Voodoo       |
| TheUnpwnable |
| Pachuriko    |
| Mad-Mozart   |
| Adjux        |
| ZLO          |
| Embers       |
| Deathly      |
| Vee          |
| MrMackey     |
| Blackheart   |
| Chevalier    |
| Mr-Smith     |
| TA4Life      |
|              |

List of Participants

The high quality of participants made the URC one of the highest ranked
tournaments in the recent history of FAF.

### Rules

The rules can be found in the full tournament post, a short summary is
given now:

-   Single Elimination (knockout system)
-   BO5 (Best of 5) in each round
-   3 maps given, 2 maps to be chosen by the players
-   1 week to play the matches

The prizes were:

**1st place:** 100$ and an individually designed avatar **2nd place:**
30$ and an avatar **3d place:** 20$ and an avatar

The prize pool got founded by *TA4Life*, *Voodoo*, *Lextoc* and
*Blackheart*.

### Round 1

The maps and pairings for the first week can be found
[here](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=82746#p82746).

In the first round the action started fast with a clash of 2 tournament
favourites: LuXy and Blackheart. This match was, after psychological
warfare preceding it, won by Blackheart 3-1 (losing on Bermuda Locket).
Another very interesting match was Embers vs Adjux, as these 2 players
were considered highly equal in ability. Adjux demonstrated the power of
good preparation, bringing powerful BOs to every game. Embers fought
back well, but got eventually defeated in a hard 3-2 struggle. An epic
fight was brought to us by TA4Life and Isen, who had to repeat some
matches due to technical issues and eventually TA4Life got bested by
Isen through a tough 3-2 win.

The 2 casts of the games of round 1 are
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yn4niDdsmlI) and
[here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_jL12dwLJ9c).

### Round 2

With half of the players eliminated, the tournament continued with two
especially interesting matchups: Pachuriko vs Voodoo as well as Isen vs
ZLO. In the Pachuriko vs Voodoo match Voodoo showed his skill on smaller
maps, while Pachurikos superior macro gave him the edge on bigger maps.
Finally, Pachuriko prevailed 3-2. The Isen vs ZLO match was a clash of
two oldtimers: Isen, who was reactivated just for this tournament, and
ZLO who is around since the earliest days. As Isen took an early 2-1
lead, this match promised to be interesting, and they delivered. ZLO won
on the map choice of his opponent, bringing the match under his belt
with a 3-2 win.

Summary of round 2 by Nepalm: [Click
here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IHkz92kK5lM).

### Semifinals

As round 2 finished, the semifinals arrived. Only 4 players and 2
matches were left: Adjux vs Blackheart and Pachuriko vs ZLO. Both of
these were highly anticipated as Adjux had shown excellent preparation
to make things difficult, and ZLO vs Pachuriko as the classic fight of
defensive play versus aggression. The Blackheart-Adjux match started
with 2-1 to Blackheart, as he could win the 5x5 as well as the 20x20
sized map. The match on crossfire canal got casted by
[Gyle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QtX3iWHlRiI). Adjux then managed
to win on his map to tie the match to 2-2, but Blackheart showed no
mercy on his map and won 3-2. Pachuriko proved to be proficient on the
larger maps, as he won all matches vs ZLO except the one on the 5x5
sized map.

Cast is [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=76oIfPN6j5M).

### Finals

This leads to the final match: Pachuriko vs Blackheart. The maps
selected by the random generator were Finns Revenge, Loki and Roanoke,
which gives (if you ask the players to predict) an edge to Blackheart on
Finns, an edge to Pachuriko on Loki, and an equal match on Roanoke.
Surprisingly the games did not follow the expectations, as Blackheart
managed to snag a win on Loki, though lost on Roanoke. Together with the
win on Finns, he went into the last 2 games with 2-1 under his belt. As
it was Pachurikos map choice, he decided to go for The Ditch, a highly
apm intensive, large, reclaim-heavy and endurance dependent map. Very
equal play ensued, but finally Blackheart managed to abuse his air
advantage to snipe Pachuriko with a soulripper, hence winning the URC
finals 3-1.

The cast of the finals is again on
[youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=USgyMsbJASM).

### Game for the third place

In the battle for the third place, we had Adjux vs ZLO. With two wins
from the first 3 games, losing only on Loki, which is one of the
strongest maps for Adjux, ZLO could confidently enter the last 2 games.
Adjux though had decided to not resign into despair, but instead fought
hard and came back, clinching both of the last 2 games in the tournament
to finish ZLO 3-2 and winning the third place.

Cast is [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c4URasmJEis).

### End of the tournament

After the match for the third place was done, the URC ended after
lasting for 28 days. The final post can be found, as usual, in the
[forums](http://forums.faforever.com/forums//viewtopic.php?p=85004#p85004).