<!--
title: FAF Team Lead meeting notes
description: A place to document meetings of the FAF Team leads.
published: true
date: 2025-06-03T10:28:37.136Z
tags: team, team lead, meeting
editor: ckeditor
dateCreated: 2025-02-23T15:09:50.969Z
-->

<p><span class="text-huge"><strong>FAF Team Lead meeting notes</strong></span></p>
<p>This page will serve for recording team meetings. Latest meeting is up top, times listed are in CET/GMT. Meeting lead is designated with (ML).</p>
<hr>
<p><span class="text-big"><strong>6th FAF Team Lead meeting,</strong></span><br><strong>May 4th 2025, 15:30</strong><br><br>Present:<br>+ Trainer Razana, Strydxr<br>+ Promotions Fichom, ML<br>FAF Live &nbsp;<br>+ Tournament hybrid<br>+ Matchmaking Archsimkat<br>+ Balance Rhaelya<br>+ Game BlackYps<br>+ Creative Balthazar<br>+ Moderation Index<br>+ DevOps Brutus<br>+ Campaign - notes from Green<br>___________________________</p>
<p>Fichom (promotions):<br>&nbsp; - As you might be aware, then new news hub is currently in a limbo. Reason is Jip was very unsatisfied with the amount of effort it took for non-dev people to use git to post articles and the like.<br>&nbsp; - Jip is exploring a CMS system of sorts that would fix these issues, and I hope we can have the thing rolled out before summer.<br>&nbsp; - I plan to make a hierarchy "poster" of sorts to help people both recognize what kinds of skillsets can be applied in different teams, what kind of work teams do, and what the relation between different "bodies" that constitute FAF are.<br>&nbsp; - New AI ladder? For now, I'll defer to teams and members who are more in the works with that, but we'll want to promote it quite a bit.</p>
<p><br>Hybrid (tournament):<br>&nbsp;- Spring invitational - 6 invites, 2 of them are for 2 top in grandmaster league<br>&nbsp;- rebuilding team - quite a bit of the team is inactive, expand team<br>&nbsp;- change and add roles a bit<br>&nbsp;- Tournament team road map: https://discord.com/channels/197033481883222026/1334861016755998760/1368614046777213020<br>&nbsp;- statutes finished by Friday 9th May<br>&nbsp;- Nuggets ban: OSU tournaments have issues with rating manipulation as well - badge system<br>&nbsp;- reorganize the tournament forum<br>&nbsp;- rewrite/update rulebook</p>
<p>Greenkiller (campaign):<br>&nbsp;- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mbO8WthTRBTR_XhfY-o1evFsRQBmXd6bIN7k1v1ZhcM/edit?tab=t.0</p>
<p>Razana (substitute, trainer):<br>&nbsp;- Razana is the representative for Trainer team during Strydxr's absence<br>&nbsp;- 1v1 beginner's 1v1 guide<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - tweaks already made from feedback<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - response was very good<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - some players found link via google (issues with link initially, were fixed)<br>&nbsp;- 1v1 intermediate guide<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - Strydxr and Sladow are busy, guide delayed for 2-3 weeks<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - regular work is progressing good<br>&nbsp;- Razana taking over Strydxr's tournaments hosting:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - u1100 tournament</p>
<p>Rhaelya (balance):<br>&nbsp;- next patch is soon, so focusing on finalizing changes (no new stuff)<br>&nbsp;- more public testing via fafbeta<br>&nbsp;- closer cooperation of game and balance teams (maybe using some joint channels in discord)</p>
<p>BlackYps (game):<br>&nbsp;- game team meeting on 3rd May<br>&nbsp; - small but productive<br>&nbsp;- patch is in two weeks<br>&nbsp;- tactical paint feature<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- engine patch by 4z0t<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- one of the two implementations (Jip's) is being pushed out</p>
<p>Brutus5000 (devops):<br>&nbsp;- Brutus was sick<br>&nbsp;- had a contact with a company that specializes in ddos-protection<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- too expensive<br>&nbsp;- new ICE adapter<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- still same issue, but ideas are being tested<br>&nbsp;- migrating replay server to websockets</p>
<p>Index (moderation):<br>&nbsp;- drawing function - exploring with Jip how to moderate it<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- dicks are fine, but Swastikas will earn you a ban<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- need to poll the association where the line will be drawn at<br>&nbsp;- internal restructuring:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- "retired moderator" - old mods who haven't been active in a long time<br>&nbsp;- worked on statistics<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- patterns in user registration<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- games played / registration time - in last year a lot of new accounts that don't even link steam<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- Brutus: gambling pages creating accounts to register in the forum to have presence limit to joining forums post steam-linking wiping&nbsp;<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;accounts that match this profiling, which explains graphs look the way they do<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- 50% of players play &lt;13 games, 30% who play only 1 game<br>&nbsp;- reports of new lobby crashers<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- looking into what is happening, potential user spoofing</p>
<p>&nbsp;Balthazar (creative):<br>&nbsp;- new member<br>&nbsp;- resolved a long-standing support ticket about vault permissions<br>&nbsp;- discussions for a mapping tournament<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- theme: maps with water start<br>&nbsp;- design briefs with campaign team</p>
<p>Matchmaker team:<br>&nbsp;- Rhaelya: lack of certain maps in certain sizes - interesting idea for a mapping tournamen<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- cooperation with creative team<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;- Balthazar really likes that idea, matchmaker needs to discuss it internally first however</p>
<p>&nbsp;- Arch:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; - AI on ladder:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - team likes the idea, but not in the same queue as ladder players<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - separate queue vs AI (human teammates, AI opponents)<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; - can queue at same time PvP and PvAI<br>&nbsp;</p>
<hr>
<p><span class="text-big"><strong>4th FAF Team Lead meeting,</strong></span><br><strong>March 16th 2025, 15:30</strong><br><br>Present:<br>Promotions (Fichom)<br>Creative (Balthazar)<br>Game (BlackYps)<br>Moderation (Giebmasse, IndexLibrorum)<br>Balance (Rhaelya)<br>Tournament team (Strydxr)<br>Trainer team (Strydxr)<br>Board (Jip)<br>Devops (Brutus)<br>Matchmaker (Archsimkat)</p>
<p>Jip (board):</p>
<p>&nbsp; wants to improve FAF by:<br>restructure Discord<br>&nbsp; - one category for each team)<br>&nbsp; - team decides which channels they need<br>&nbsp; Q1 (Strydxr) reduced visibility of channels:<br>&nbsp; A1 (Jip) if you want it on top, you can have it on top<br>&nbsp; A2 (Fichom) we can change order of sections etc.<br>&nbsp; - create information channel for each team, so visitors know how a team works:<br>&nbsp;tools, roles, etc. to help people easily realize and find things they can contribute with<br>&nbsp; - Importantly, are team leads interested in this<br>access to team channels for the board<br>&nbsp; - board bears the responsibility of the work teams do, but have no access<br>&nbsp; - other than the moderation team which is a special case, requesting access from teams<br>&nbsp; A1 (Strydxr): Trainer team is fine with it<br>&nbsp; A2 (Brutus): DevOps teams have no hidden channels currently<br>&nbsp; A2 (Jip): DevOps is also a sensitive team, similar to moderation<br>&nbsp; A3 (Index): Moderation team is exploring the ability of reporting in a regular fashion to both the Board and possibility the greater community.<br>&nbsp; Q4 (Index): What are the audior's role in this<br>&nbsp; A4 (Jip): Auditors are primarily here to check on financial state and the work that the Board does is in the best interest for FAF<br>&nbsp;please upvote/downvote the two posts so the Board knows what the teams think of the suggestions.</p>
<p>Brutus:<br>1) April fools joke is in preparation<br>2) New ice adapter had breakthrough yesterday with the first real game launched on the test server (+ attracted a new dev that is knee deep in the code)</p>
<p>Balthazar:<br>1) a new member recently, doesn't have access yet</p>
<p>BlackYps:<br>1) technical groundwork prepared to release the game editor soon (shaders need to match the game), next release candidate</p>
<p>IndexLibrorum:<br>1) share activity of the moderation team with the general community - they have to be careful with not sharing private information, but mostly statistics etc.</p>
<p>Rhaelya:<br>1) a new member (Karl), wanting to helping with statistics - getting data to get extra feedback<br>2) sACU rework is still in the work, but it's not done yet</p>
<p>Strydxr (Trainer team):<br>1) started doing meetings, working hard on the wiki<br>2) hotkey guide in the works<br>3) a few new team member candidates</p>
<p>Strydxr (Tournament team):<br>1) spring &nbsp;<br>2) physical throphy</p>
<p>Q1 (Index): will there be team tournaments focused on lower rated players<br>A1 (Strydxr): can't comment for the tournament team, &nbsp;</p>
<p>Archsimkat:<br>1) new member onboarded<br>2) working on the system the way pools are drafted so the work is more split out between multiple people<br>3) updating wiki</p>
<p>Fichom:<br>1) preparations for new news hub going live are almost done<br>2) I'm currently working on the RC8 yt thubmnails, and I've stumbled upon the issue of team names. Now I know it's a delicate theme of trying to "limit" the creative freedom of naming teams, but I think the Tournament team should seriously consider &nbsp;defining some rules on team-naming conventions. My proposal is something like: "2-20 symbols, which include: letters of the english alphabet, digits, as well as special characters like '-', '.', '=' and '_'.<br>3) Strydxr, can you find someone in the trainer team (not yourself) who'd be willing to give a bit of a feedback on a set of "training" scenario missions I tried to cook a year or two ago. Their job would mostly be to oversee the "training" steps, check if the ideas presented are factually correct, not actually do any mapping or coding work. Note to any candidates that this, while I'd argue quite fleshed out, is currently not very close to the finished stage.<br>&nbsp;</p>
<hr>
<p><span class="text-big"><strong>3rd FAF Team Lead meeting,</strong></span><br><strong>February 23rd 2025, 15:30</strong></p>
<p><strong>Present:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Balthazar, Giebmasse, GreenKiller, Fichom (ML), Speed, Strydxr<br><strong>Substitutes:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Strydxr (Balance, Tournament), Fichom (Game)<br><strong>Absent:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; DevOps, Matchmaker and FAFLive representative</p>
<p><strong>Short notes (</strong><i><strong>in order of presentation</strong></i><strong>):</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><strong>general:</strong> Fichom reminded it's fine if you have nothing to report on</li>
  <li><strong>Promotions: </strong>Other teams should notify and ask for help with communicating to community when there's an issue that they can't waste time on while trying to resolve problems (ping Fichom/promo team). Ideally teams should communicate when big changes are happening so we can preventatively announce it to community (game patches, balance patches, etc.). Team avatars for members and soon for leads. Different "event" mods (easter, Christmas, april 1st, etc.), maybe keep regular events for a few days, and April 1st event for two days max.</li>
  <li><strong>Balance:</strong> Balance patch was released, feedback was good. They are still working hard on the sACU rework.</li>
  <li><strong>Tournament:</strong> had a large meeting, details of which can be found at (https://docs.google.com/document/d/18p9_S6t1H3xZWGfi2baLU03IhnEYaVTrvZ4PUm7VfiQ/edit?tab=t.0). Introduction of Senior TD, which help with the calendar, administration, etc. Plans to review blitz tournaments and collab with matchmaker team for “tournament map week" in the matchmaker.</li>
  <li><strong>Trainer:</strong> Updating the wiki pages (archiving irrelevant guides, organizing existing, writing new ones). Plans to make map-specific guides.</li>
  <li><strong>Creative:</strong> Nothing of particular to report. Suggested a few ideas for events Fichom mentioned. Balthazar has a long list of “troll" mods that would be a good fit for April 1st. Fichom added that, if multiple ideas seem cool, we could split it over the Matchmaker (so one idea for 1v1, another for 2v2, etc.).</li>
  <li><strong>Moderation:</strong> They are onboarding two new members, have other projects they can't publicize.</li>
  <li><strong>Campaign:</strong> Team is very inactive, many old developers and maintainers are either inactive or left. They have instances of people banned from the main discord server trying to hop on to their dedicated server. Currently there are not enough members to really develop or maintain missions properly. They also need urgent help with updating and uploading missions - either a dedicated member, or Fichom suggests: exploring the option of having some sort of auto-update that would make it easier for them long term. Speed also participated, and agreed with what was said, had nothing else to add.</li>
  <li><strong>Game:</strong> Notes were sent by BlackYps during the meeting and read to others by Fichom: In the last patch (3818) we included some new textures. However, this brought the file size of env.nx2 where they are stored to over 512MB, so it wasn't cached by cloudflare anymore. Our server couldn't provide the big file to so many people that requested the file at the same time, so the download kept failing for mostly everybody. I released a hotfix that excluded the textures, so everything works now, but we still have to come up with a plan how we can ship the new textures. Other than that the patch seems stable, although it's hard to say with the amount of ddos going on.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><span class="text-big"><strong>2nd FAF Team Lead meeting,</strong></span><br><strong>February 9th 2025, 15:00</strong></p>
<p>Notes are WIP for this meeting</p>
<p><strong>Present:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Strydxr (ML),&nbsp;Balthazar, BlackYps<br><strong>Substitutes:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Strydxr (Promotions, Tournament)<br><strong>Absent:</strong><br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Balance, Moderation, DevOps, Matchmaker, Campaign and FAFLive representative</p>
<p><strong>Short notes:</strong></p>
<ul>
  <li><strong>general:</strong> none</li>
  <li><strong>Promotions: </strong>New news hub mostly functional, Strydxr joined the team, [PROJECT] tag used in project channel for larger things that might be of interest to other teams. Jip is on vacation, we are writing the documentation on how to use and publish articles to the new news hub. Ideas for a dedicated FAF Media repository, Fichom plans to work on style for the new news hub, as well as suggests a “grind” avatar for winning enough TMM games to encourage players to play more of it.</li>
</ul>
<hr>
<p><span class="text-big"><strong>1st FAF Team Lead meeting,</strong></span><br><strong>February 1st 2025, 15:30</strong></p>
<p>The first “tryout” meeting, with the express goal of getting the ball rolling. There were no team notes written down this time around.<br><br>Present:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; Fichom (ML), Strydxr, Rhaelya, Balthazar<br>Substitutes:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; IndexLibrorum (Moderation)<br>Absent:<br>&nbsp; &nbsp; DevOps, Game, Matchmaker, Trainer, Campaign and FAFLive representative</p>
<p><strong>Short notes:</strong><br>&nbsp; - <strong>general: </strong>First meeting went successfully, with the official part lasting about 12 minutes with the 4 present, and Fichom taking a bit of extra time to explain some things for the first time. Index also joined towards the end and did his part in about 1 minute, so Fichom approximates 30 minutes is an average time with all members present. Another half hour was spent after the meeting was over with members discussing other topics.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
