### General inforation

(insert picture, with will likely contain the necessary stuff) There is
little reclaim on Open Palms only some little groups of rocks that have
to be reclaimed manually. The plan on this map is to expand fast to get
up a heavy t1 spam and raid your opponent as hard as possible to slow
his expansion down (in the best case even denying it for several
minutes). Solely defending usually doesn't work since there is just too
much to defend in the early game (before you have at least 30 tanks).
Also ecoing is only a secondary strategy on this map since its very
open. You rather want t2 land (if you got mass to spend/a good advantage
from early raids). Best only eco a little after you got some t2 land
spam going and the game is somewhat stable (your opponent isn't pushing
in your base etc.), or you got some of reclaim after a won fight. Best
look how much eco the enemy has and if you aren't behind on map control
and the game is rather static (if you are e.g down an expansion you
should not eco but play aggressively to regain mapcontrol) mirror his
eco and you won't fall too much behind being outecoed

### Starting Buildorder

[insert picture](insert_picture "wikilink") There are two different
starting BOs for Open Palms where you either build your 2nd factory
(air) in the starting location or at the hydro. If you use the hydro BO
you let your first three engineers assist you ACU which builds first the
outer mex then 3 power generators and then the remaining metes.In the
factory you build 4 engineers one or two tanks one scout and more
engineers After that the engineers and the ACU build the hydro an air
factory a power generator and then some land factories. After completing
the air factory the ACU should go to one side. If you use the other
BO………………

### Tasks for the early engineers

[insert picture](insert_picture "wikilink") The first three engineers
build the following ones expand to the sides. Try, while sending them to
the expansions to que up some manual reclaim on the way (some rocks, but
only if you got the apm for it) to boost your early economy (even 500
mass can do wonders). Try to defend your most important expanding
engineers. If you stall mass heavily (more then -5) send one of your
three building engineers to expand. (About) your 8th and 10th engineer
should build power generators.

### ACU movement

[insert picture](insert_picture "wikilink") After completing you air
factory you start walking your ACU on one of the two routes. Each has
different advantages. Try to scout the enemy ACUs route so you can
properly counter it and don't risk running into the enemies ACU+ some of
his units (5 can be enough) and die.

-   Route number one: After the initial build your ACU builds the two
    outer mexes of your left expansion (if you are top side, when you
    are bottom you go the other way). After that you move your ACU
    toward the enemy bottom expansion. Since you will be there
    relatively early in the game your opponent doesn't have enough units
    to kill it and you will get that expansion. Remember that you have
    to send reinforcements though since later the enemy will definitely
    have enough units to run your ACU down. Also if you do this SCOUT
    the position of the enemy ACU so you won't run into him if he goes
    to that expansion to counter your movement. If tries to catch you
    there best just go back into your expansion and try to raid the
    other expansion where the enemy ACU isn't.
-   Route number two: Route number two is about the same as number once
    except that you use your ACU to secure your left expansion before
    going to your opponents expansion. Doing this grants you that
    expansion, giving your stronger early economy. But it will also slow
    you
-   Route number three: this one is safer and assures you get your right
    expansion. If the enemy doesn't scout properly he may also run his
    act into yours and you can if you have enough units there, kill him.
    If he has more units though (so you didn't send enough) you're in
    trouble, since he'll be able to kill you or at least can force you
    out of your expansion most likely resulting in a loss for you. Also
    he can try to, after he scouted you ACUs position try to go for the
    other expansion (where your ACU isn't) and try to use the ACU
    advantage to get it for free.

### General Strategies

On Open Palms you will mainly try to spam (6-8 land factories) and raid
unprotected expansions. Also you have to mirror the movements of the
opponents army to protect your expansion. Do not unnecessarily suicide
your army,gifting reclaim. When things calmed down a little (50+ units
on the field, your expansions are protected with pd, units, a land
factory) and you have all spam factories its time to go t2 land and win
the land battles (reclaim after the fights). Also you should try to get
the sides (with drops or ledge build) because they give you 3 mexes and
the opportunity to deny the enemies expansion with t1 artillery and
mobile missile launchers. Also having at least one side aces it much
easier to drop in the opponents back expansion or his base. [insert
picture(mml vs enemy
expansion?)](insert_picture(mml_vs_enemy_expansion?) "wikilink")

### Faction Strategies

-   Cybran: Cybran is very strong on Open Palms since the early raids
    can easily decide the game and Mantis are just made for that. Also
    their t3 is quite strong with a high mobility in loyalists and huge
    firepower in bricks also stealth fields gives the opportunity for
    nice drops.
-   UEF: mostly against Cybran the UEF will have some difficult first
    minutes but after that they only have to keep even until the t3
    stage where the only thing that can stand against the percival is an
    unscouted experimental (or a (t3) airplay) but with proper scouting
    (and good use of transports to move percivals a bit faster) UEF
    should dominate the middle and late t3 stages.
-   Aeon: Aeon have a very hard early game, since it is difficult to
    defend vs many raids and auroras are simply to slow for early
    counter raids so an aeon has to defend the early raid well to not
    fall behind too much. In bigger numbers auroras are quite strong vs
    other t1 but get wreaked by t1 bombers (try not to loose air
    control) as long as there are many t1 units are on the battlefield
    obsidians (with their huge overkill and low firerate) and with them
    t2 land will be a week choice until there is much t2 on the field.
    Usually you will try to hold as long as possible with t1 spam and a
    little t2, build a t2 power generator and then rush t3 land to spam
    harbingers (after reclaiming most of your t1 spam factories) with
    heavy assist. You want to build harbingers as early as possible
    (without loosing since t3 is an expansive investment) and abuse the
    harbingers high dos, and speed to raid the enemy as hard as possible
    to get a huge advantage for the further game (since the enemy will
    likely be Cybran or UEF you will need it). Since a lot of micro and
    good upgrade timing are required only experienced players should
    play aeon on Open Palms.
-   Seraphim: The Seraphim early game is quite similar to UEF (exept
    that should place some selens to get some extra intel). After the
    initial spam you will try to win the game on the t2 stage (due to
    the weakness of seraphim t3) try to amass enough ilshavohs to force
    he enemy out of his expansions. If he goes t3 try to push him in
    hard since that means that he has about 4000 mass less invested into
    units; it will be the best chance you get. If you use you ACU (best
    with gun, t2 and some veterancy) in the push you can overcharge the
    enmies few t3 units,making success more likely.