**Tech** is how unit strength is defined, it is the "levels" of Supreme
Commander. It is common to see units referred to as "Tech 3 Bomber"
instead of by name, such as "Sinntha". Knowing the difference in
strengths and abilities of your current tech is of strategic importance.
Aeon T1, T2, and T3 eng

## Tech 1

Tech 1 is the basic starting level in a game of Supreme Commander. The
ACU you start with is capable of building most tech 1 buildings, with a
few exceptions. This includes all 3 factories, which produce tech 1
units. All 3 factories are capable of producing tech 1 engineers and a
small selection of units.

Units common to tech 1 land factories are scouts, light assault bots,
medium attack units (usually a tank although Cybrans get the Mantis bot
instead), light artillery and light mobile AA units. The only exception
is the Seraphim factory, which has scout and light assault bot combined
in a single unit, the Selen.

Common to all 4 air factories are air scouts, interceptors, attack
bombers and light transports; the Cybrans also get the Jester light
gunship. Common to all naval factories are frigates and attack
submarines. However, the aeon get a T1 attack boat to compensate for
their frigate lacking AA. T1 structures are all virtually identical
among the factions at this stage. T1 point defense is also basically the
same, but the Aeon and Seraphim point defenses turn faster than the
others, and so they are slightly more resistant to kiting than their UEF
and Cybran counterparts.

To advance in Tech levels, you need to either upgrade your factory,
(which will then produce Tech 2 units, notably the Tech 2 engineers) or
your ACU, though this is not recommended due to the cost.

## Tech 2

Tech 2 is your second level of tech. This level is full of heavier
defenses, numerous support buildings, and important combat units. The
advent of T2 marks the part of the game where units begin to pose a
serious threat to an ACU other than simply by overwhelming numbers and
the factions strengths and weakness' begin to diverge more markedly
(Cybrans showing off their prowess in stealth, UEF starting to turtle
up, Aeon units becoming even more single purposed and the Seraphim
starting to destroy everything with their superior AA and missiles).

Common T2 land units include the heavy tank, amphibious tank, mobile
missile launcher and mobile AA flak unit, although the Seraphim get an
assault bot (the Ilshavoh) instead of a heavy tank. Truly unique units
start appearing at this stage such as the UEF Sparky combat engineer and
the Cybran Fire Beetle suicide bomb.

All factions get a torpedo bomber, medium air transport and gunship and
the UEF, Cybran and Seraphim get a fighter-bomber, while the Aeon
instead get the Swift Wind combat fighter (another testament to their
single purposed units), but compensate with the Mercy guided missile.

Common naval units include the destroyer and cruiser, marking the start
of effective naval-shore bombardment strategies, while the UEF, Aeon and
Cybran get submarine hunters. The UEF and Cybran also get the unique
Bulwark shield ship and CI:18 Mermaid counterintelligence boat
respectively.

T2 structures bring a whole range of powerful attack and defence
options, including light artillery installations, tactical missile
launchers, shield generators and tactical missile defences, as well as
upgrades to the T1 structures such as point defences, AA emplacements
and radar. The UEF and Cybrans also gain access to their powerful
engineering stations, the Kennel and the Hive at this level.

## Tech 3

This is the maximum level your ACU, factory, Mass extractors, Shield
Generators, and radar/sonar can be upgraded to. Tech 3 contains the
heaviest units a factory can produce as well as the greatest diversity
between factions; this is the level where ACUs can be destroyed in a
single coordinated strike by the units.

The only common T3 land unit between the factions is their mobile
artillery pieces. Seraphim get their T3 mobile shield, Aeon get their
shield disruptor, and the Cybran and UEF get their armored assault bot.
The human factions get their heavy assault bots while the seraphim get
their siege tanks. T3 air factories produce spy planes, powerful air
superiority fighters (ASFs), strategic bombers and heavy gunships
(except for the Seraphim); the UEF also benefit from the Continental
heavy air transport and the Aeon get the Solace heavy torpedo bomber. T3
naval units are extremely expensive and include strategic missile
submarines and battleships (again, except for the Seraphim who get a T3
submarine hunter and a strategic missile battleship capableof firing
nukes instead) and aircraft carriers (with the exception of the UEF who
get the Atlantis experimental at T4 instead). The UEF also get the
Neptune Class battlecruiser and the Aeon have access to the Torrent
Class missile ship.

Finally, T3 engineers are capable of building Quantum Gateways capable
of transporting powerful SCUs to the battlefield; these units cannot be
built by normal factories. T3 structures feature powerful and expensive
weapons such as heavy artillery installations, strategic missile
launchers and strategic missile defences, and improved shield generators
for most factions (except the Cybrans who can only upgrade their tech 2
ones). Some heavy defences are introduced such as the UEF Ravager point
defence and the Cybran HARMS torpedo system, while all 4 factions get T3
AA missile emplacements.

## Tech 4

Tech 4 is not a real tech level in the same sense as the other 3, it is
an unofficial term for Experimental units that can only be built by
units with a T3 engineering suite (T3 engineers, SCUs and upgraded
ACUs). Large, devastatingly powerful units too big to be constructed in
factories, these units are extrordinarily expensive but can
single-handedly turn the tide of battle. Several of them are
sufficiently powerful enough to be referred to as Game enders, capable
of deciding an entire match on completion.
